QUESTIONS
_____________________________
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

92

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Numbers refer to Question Numbers

I. The nature of judicial review
     A. Organization and relationship of state and federal courts in a

federal system 11, 14, 17, 22, 23, 29, 58, 75, 115, 118, 120, 129,
134, 141, 142
     B. Jurisdiction 74

          1. Constitutional basis 1, 5, 11, 14, 23, 29, 32, 42, 58, 66, 68, 75,

92, 109, 110, 112, 118, 120, 122, 125, 129, 134, 142
          2. Congressional power to define and limit 11, 14, 23, 112, 118,

142

     C. Judicial review in operation

          1. The “case or controversy” requirement 120
          2. Standing, ripeness, mootness 1, 15, 16, 18, 33, 34, 36, 37, 53,
57, 70, 71, 73, 75, 80, 91, 97, 99, 111, 114, 120, 123, 124, 128,
130, 131, 133, 140, 143, 144, 146

          3. Justiciability 1, 22, 66, 85, 94, 134
          4. The “adequate state ground” 11, 29, 75, 112
          5. Discretionary abstention 1, 11, 17, 75, 94, 112, 115
          6. The presumption of constitutionality 12, 47, 88, 138

II. The separation of powers 42, 87, 125, 137
     A. The powers of Congress 4, 12, 13, 17, 23, 26, 34, 35, 45, 67, 89,

93, 96, 98, 105, 113, 115, 118, 121, 123, 126, 139, 142

          1. Commerce, taxing, and spending 4, 5, 12, 14, 19, 24, 34, 35, 36,
38, 39, 44, 45, 51, 57, 59, 72, 73, 82, 83, 98, 105, 110, 121, 123,
126, 128, 132, 133, 143

          2. Power over the District of Columbia and federal property 24,

40, 59, 73, 83, 89, 91, 96, 107, 133

          3. War and defense powers 9, 31, 85, 90
          4. Power to enforce the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth

Amendments 121, 137

     B. The powers of the President

          1. As chief executive 9, 28, 31, 37, 78, 104, 124
          2. As Commander-in-Chief 9, 31, 85, 104
          3. Treaty and foreign affairs powers 9, 28, 31, 37, 78, 93, 104,

93

124, 139

     C. Interbranch checks upon the exercise of federal power
          1. Congressional limits on the executive 85, 93, 139
          2. The President's power to veto or to withhold action under a

statute 65, 93, 139

          3. Judicial restraints upon the President and Congress 9, 85, 94

III. The relation of nation and states in a federal system 12, 13, 14, 22,

23, 26, 113, 118, 142

     A. Intergovernmental immunities 5, 11, 17, 19, 21, 22, 38, 58, 73, 75,

82, 101, 110, 112, 115, 117, 129, 133, 141

     B. The authority reserved to the states 1, 5, 14, 15, 17, 21, 23, 26,
40, 44, 45, 46, 47, 51, 80, 93, 101, 109, 110, 115, 117, 118, 126,
127, 139, 142

     C. National power to override state authority 2, 8, 13, 17, 19, 21, 23,

26, 40, 42, 45, 51, 59, 72, 84, 90, 93, 103, 106, 111, 113, 115, 117,
118, 125, 126, 132, 137, 139, 142

IV. Individual rights
     A. “State action” and the role of the federal judiciary 11, 17, 22, 25,

32, 48, 112, 115, 121, 122
     B. Due process 1, 30, 45, 109

          1. Substantive due process 42, 86
              a. Fundamental rights 13. 30, 47, 80, 113
              b. Other rights 34, 35, 55, 123
              c. “Incorporation” of portions of the Bill of Rights in the

Fourteenth Amendment 74

          2. Procedural due process 27, 32, 35, 42, 49, 69, 86, 87, 92, 94,

119

     C. Equal protection 1, 8, 10, 20, 25, 30, 34, 45, 48, 54, 67, 86, 87, 89,

96, 108, 109, 113, 123

          1. Regulations of voting and legislative representation 16, 46, 114,

127

          2. Economic and social welfare regulations 1, 8, 30, 36, 45, 60,

72, 76, 108, 109, 106, 111, 126, 132

          3. Regulations affecting other interests 1, 8, 68, 79, 103, 109, 111
          4. Race, alienage, sex, illegitimacy, and poverty classifications 13,

16, 20, 25, 47, 67, 79, 80, 87, 88, 99, 113, 114, 136, 137, 138,
141, 146

          5. Other classifications 20, 58, 72, 75, 76, 129, 132

94

     D. Privileges and Immunities Clauses 6, 10, 42, 55, 58, 76, 103, 129,

137

     E. Obligation of contracts, bills of attainder, ex post facto laws 2, 55,

58, 69, 86, 89, 103, 129

     F. First Amendment freedoms 7, 54, 64,119

          1. Freedom of religion and separation of church and state 3, 8, 15,

50, 70, 107, 111, 130

          2. Freedom of expression 32, 46, 122, 127
              a. Regulation of oral and written communication 18, 39, 49, 71,

77, 102, 116, 131, 135, 145

              b. Regulation of conduct involving protest or dissent 7, 27, 43,

49, 71, 119, 131, 145

              c. Regulation of obscenity 18, 77, 116, 135
              d. Regulation of, or impositions upon public employment

licenses, or benefits based upon exercise of First Amendment
rights 7, 43, 64, 100

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

1. A state enacts the Continuing Professional Education Act, which
provides that all persons licensed by the state to practice any
profession other than medicine are required to complete 10 units per
year of state-approved continuing education studies as a condition for
renewal of their professional licenses.

The day after the statute goes into effect, a law school graduate, who
has applied for but not yet received a license to practice law, sues in
federal court seeking a declaratory judgment that the Continuing
Professional Education Act is unconstitutional. Which of the following
is the clearest ground for dismissal of this action by the court?

(A) No substantial federal question is presented.

(B) The suit presents a non-justiciable political controversy.

(C) The student lacks standing to attack the statute.

(D) The validity of the statute has not yet been determined by a state

court.

2. A state law declares a wild pig to be an endangered species and

prohibits the killing or shooting of any wild pig within the state. A new
national park was established by the federal government to preserve

95

plants and animals native to the region, and is located entirely within
the state. The wild pig is so hardy that it has begun to displace other
wildlife in the national park. Because the wild pig is actually
descended from European stock, the United States Department of the
Interior has contracted with an exterminator, a resident of another state,
to kill all wild pigs living within the national park. The contract with
the exterminator is specifically authorized by federal statutes regulating
the operation of national parks.

If the exterminator is prosecuted by the state for violating the law that
prohibits the killing of wild pigs, which of the following is the
exterminator's strongest argument in defense against that prosecution?

(A) Only the federal government can declare a species to be

endangered.

(B) As applied, the state statute unduly interferes with interstate

commerce.

(C) As applied, the state statute violates the Obligation of Contracts

Clause of the United States Constitution.

(D) As applied, the state statute violates the Supremacy Clause of the

United States Constitution.

3. A state statute prohibits the killing of any animal “in a manner which

causes unnecessary pain or suffering of said animal.” The defendant is
prosecuted for violating the statute by strangling a chicken as part of a
religious ritual in which he participated. The defendant defends on the
ground that the state statute as applied in his case unconstitutionally
interferes with his free exercise of religion.

Which of the following may the court NOT consider in determining
the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) Whether the statute is necessary to protect a compelling state

interest.

(B) Whether the religious belief that requires the strangling of a chicken

is reasonable.

(C) Whether the religious ritual involving the strangling of chickens has

been practiced for a long period of time.

(D) Whether the defendant is sincere in the religious belief that requires

96

the strangling of a chicken.

4. Congress passes a law regulating the wholesale and retail prices of

“every purchase of an automobile in the United States.” The strongest
argument in support of the constitutionality of such a statute is that

(A) taken as a whole, the domestic purchases and sales of such

products affect interstate commerce.

(B) the United States Constitution expressly authorizes Congress to

pass laws for the general welfare.

(C) Congress has the authority to regulate the prices of products

purchased and sold because commerce includes buying and selling.

(D) Congress has the right to regulate interstate transportation and the

importation of products from abroad.

5. A federal statute directs payment of federal funds to states for use in

the improvement and expansion of state hospital facilities. The terms of
the statute provide that “No state shall award a contract for hospital
improvement or expansion financed in whole or in part by funds
received under this section unless said contract requires that the
contractor pay its employees a minimum wage of $10 per hour.”

A state contracted with a builder for the construction of a new wing on
the State Hospital, after receiving funds for that purpose under the
federal statute. The contract did not require the builder to pay its
employees a minimum wage of $10 per hour. Upon learning this,
federal officials demanded that the state either modify its contract with
the builder or return the funds received under the statute. When the
state refused, the federal government sued the state in federal court for
return of the money.

In the action by the United States against the state, the court should find
for

(A) the state, because fixing the minimum wage of employees is a

traditional state function.

(B) the state, because the regulation of hospitals and of construction

practices are traditional state functions.

(C) the United States, because Congress has the power to regulate the

way in which federal funds are spent.

97

(D) the United States, because some of the materials used in hospital

construction are traded in interstate commerce.

6. A bird is a rare species of quail found only in the state. Because its

flesh is tasty, it was hunted nearly to extinction until 30 years ago. At
that time, the state instituted conservation and game management
programs designed to preserve the bird. These programs included the
establishment of breeding preserves, the employment of ornithologists
to study the bird's habits, the passage of laws restricting the hunting of
the birds, and the employment of game wardens to enforce those laws.
The expense of maintaining the programs was financed in part by the
sale of hunting licenses. A recent statute passed by the state legislature
fixes the fee for a hunting license at $10 per year for state residents,
and $20 per year for nonresidents. A hunter who resides outside the
state was arrested in the state and prosecuted for hunting without a
license in violation of the statute. He defended by asserting that the
statute is unconstitutional because the hunting license fee for
nonresidents is higher than for residents.

Which of the following correctly identifies the clause or clauses of the
United States Constitution violated by the state hunting license statute?

(A) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.

(C) Both the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV and the
Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) Neither the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV nor the
Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

7. An organization asserts that government should be abolished. Its slogan

is, “What if they made a law and nobody obeyed?” Its published
literature urges all persons to violate laws, no matter how logical they
might seem, and in this way to help bring about the abolition of
government.

While in law school, a student joined the organization for the purpose
of acquiring material for a book that he was writing. Although he had
heard that the organization was dangerous and subversive, the student
thought its members to be fools and believed their slogan and
literature to be too ridiculous to ever convince anybody of anything.

98

So that he could have access to the organization's records, he
volunteered to be Party Secretary. In his capacity as such, he
frequently typed handbills written by the organization's Propaganda
Chairperson and arranged to have them printed for subsequent
distribution, although he did not intend for anybody to be convinced by
them. All of these handbills contained the organization's slogan and
urged the deliberate violation of laws. Eventually, the student wrote a
book about the organization. When he finished law school and applied
for admission to the bar, his application was rejected. The state bar
examiners stated that the only reason for the rejection of the student's
application was a state law that provided that “No person shall be
licensed to practice law who has belonged to any organization
advocating unlawful activity.” If the student brings an appropriate
judicial proceeding for an order directing the state bar examiners to
admit him to practice law, should the student win?

(A) Yes, because he joined the organization for the purpose of gathering

information for a book that he was writing.

(B) Yes, because he did not intend for the organization to succeed in

convincing people to violate laws.

(C) No, because he knew that the organization advocated unlawful

conduct when he joined the organization.

(D) No, because he played an active role in the organization's

activities.

8. A state statute requires cable television stations to set aside one hour
of airtime per week to be made available without charge for the
broadcasting of spiritually uplifting programs produced by recognized
religious organizations. The statute further provides that airtime
thereby made available shall be equally divided among Jewish, Roman
Catholic, and Protestant organizations. A religious organization known
as the American Buddhist League produced a spiritually uplifting
program but was advised by several cable television stations that it
could not be broadcast under the statute. The American Buddhist
League has instituted a proceeding in federal court challenging the
constitutional validity of the state statute.

The clearest reason for finding that the statute is unconstitutional is that
it violates

(A) the Free Exercise Clause, in that it treats religions unequally.

99

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(B) the Establishment Clause, in that it is not closely fitted to furthering

a compelling governmental interest.

(C) the Equal Protection Clause, in that it applies only to cable

television stations.

(D) the Supremacy Clause, in that broadcasting is an area already

subject to extensive federal regulation.

9. When revolutionaries seized control of the government of a foreign
republic, they confiscated and nationalized several privately owned
businesses, including some belonging to citizens of the United States.
The President of the United States ordered the Secretary of Defense to
prepare to send troops into the country to protect United States
interests there. When the Secretary of Defense began giving
appropriate orders to military leaders, action was instituted in a
federal court for an injunction prohibiting the Secretary of Defense
from sending troops to the country. The plaintiff in that action asserted
that the President's order to invade the country violated a federal
statute that limited the President's power to invade such nations. The
Secretary of Defense asked the court to dismiss the case, on the ground
that it lacked jurisdiction.

Does the federal court have jurisdiction to issue the requested
injunction?

(A) No, because the President is Commander-in-Chief of the Army and

Navy.

(B) No, because the federal courts lack the power to review the

constitutional validity of a presidential order.

(C) Yes, because federal officials are subject to the jurisdiction of the

federal courts even when carrying out presidential orders.

(D) Yes, because the President lacks the power to order the invasion of

a foreign nation without a declaration of war.

10. A federal statute prohibits male employees of the United States Census

Bureau from wearing beards or moustaches, although no such
prohibition exists for employees of other federal agencies. The
plaintiff was discharged from his employment with the U.S. Census
Bureau for violating the statute by refusing to remove his moustache. If
the plaintiff asserts a claim on the ground that the statute was invalid,

100

his most effective argument is that the law

(A) denies him a privilege or immunity of national citizenship.

(B) invidiously discriminates against him in violation of the Fifth

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(C) invidiously discriminates against him in violation of the Fourteenth

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(D) deprives him of a property right without just compensation.

11. A state constitution contains an equal protection clause identical in

language to the Equal Protection Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment
to the United States Constitution. The state legislature passed a law
empowering insurance companies within the state to charge different
rates for males and females where actuarial analysis revealed a
relationship between gender and increased risk. Shortly after its
passage, the plaintiff sued in the state court for a judgment declaring
that the statute violated the Equal Protection Clause of the state
constitution. The trial court found the statute to be valid, and the
plaintiff appealed to the Court of Judicial Appeals, the highest court of
the state. The Court of Judicial Appeals affirmed the ruling of the
lower court.

If the plaintiff seeks United States Supreme Court review of the state
Court of Judicial Appeals decision, United States Supreme Court
review is available

(A) by appeal only.

(B) by certiorari only.

(C) either by appeal or by certiorari.

(D) neither by appeal nor by certiorari.

12. Congress passes the Federal Humane Act prohibiting the interstate

transportation of dogs for use in dogfighting competitions or
exhibitions. The defendant is prosecuted in a federal court for violating
the Federal Humane Act, and defends by asserting that the statute is not
constitutionally valid because it was enacted for purposes that were
entirely noncommercial. The most effective argument in support of the
constitutionality of the statute is that

(A) Congress is empowered to prohibit cruelty to animals under the

101

federal police power.

(B) the power to regulate interstate commerce includes the power to
completely exclude specified items from interstate commerce
without regard to congressional motives.

(C) under the “Cooley Doctrine,” the federal and state governments

have concurrent power to prohibit cruelty to animals.

(D) acts of Congress are presumptively constitutional.

13. A woman who was not a citizen of the United States applied for

temporary employment with the state. She was rejected, however,
because the Civil Service Law of the state prohibits temporary state
employment of a person who is not a United States citizen. The woman
sued in a state court for an order directing the state Civil Service
Commission to reconsider her application, on the ground that the
section of the Civil Service Law that prohibited the temporary
employment of noncitizens was unconstitutional.

The woman asserted that the section in question was invalid under the
Supremacy Clause. In determining the constitutionality of the section in
question, which of the following would be most relevant?

(A) The unemployment rate in the state.

(B) Federal civil service laws.

(C) The immigration laws and treaties of the United States.

(D) The percentage of persons residing in the state who are not citizens

of the United States.

14. Congress enacts the Truth in Selling Act, requiring that certain

disclosures be made by sellers in interstate sales transactions, and
fixing civil damages for failure to make the requisite disclosures. The
Act authorizes parties allegedly damaged by violations of the Truth in
Selling Act to sue in either state or federal courts. The Act further
provides that any decision of a lower state court construing a section of
the Truth in Selling Act may be appealed directly to the United States
Supreme Court.

The provision of this statute that authorizes appeal of a lower state
court decision directly to the United States Supreme Court is

(A) constitutional, because Congress has the power to regulate

102

interstate commerce.

(B) constitutional, because Congress may establish the manner in which
the appellate jurisdiction of the United States Supreme Court is
exercised.

(C) unconstitutional, because Article III of the United States

Constitution does not authorize the United States Supreme Court to
directly review the decisions of lower state courts.

(D) unconstitutional, because it infringes the sovereign right of a state

to review decisions of its own lower courts.

15. Congress enacts the Aid to Education Act, which authorizes the direct
expenditure of federal tax funds for the purchase of computers and
audiovisual equipment that are then to be donated to private schools
for educational purposes. The Act makes the equipment available on
equal terms to religiously oriented and non-religiously oriented private
schools. However, a provision of the Act states that the equipment so
purchased and donated must be used solely for non-religious purposes
and non-religious education.

The parents of several students at public schools located in the state
have sued in federal court for an order enjoining the use of federal tax
funds for the purchase of equipment to be used by religious schools, on
the ground that such expenditure is unconstitutional.

Should the court issue the injunction?

(A) Yes, because expenditures of public funds for the purchase of

equipment to be used by religious schools violates the
Establishment Clause.

(B) Yes, because regulation of education is solely a function of the

states.

(C) No, because the petitioners lack standing to challenge the

expenditure of funds by the federal government.

(D) No, because the Aid to Education Act permits such expenditures

only for non-religious purposes.

16. An ordinance of the city provides for the election of a mayor every

four years. The ordinance makes all persons living in the city for one
year eligible to vote in mayoral elections. It specifies how a candidate

103

may have his or her name placed on the ballot, and provides that a
voter may vote for a person whose name is not on the ballot by writing
that person's name onto the ballot at a place provided for that purpose.

Although she was not associated with any political party, a lawyer
decided to run for the office of mayor. It was too late for the lawyer to
have her name placed on the ballot, so she campaigned for write-in
votes. Because many of the people she regarded as her constituents
were not United States citizens and did not read or write English, the
lawyer furnished prospective voters with self-adhesive stickers
imprinted with her name and told them that they could cast a “sticker
vote” for her by placing the sticker in the appropriate place on the
ballot. Because he feared that stickers would separate from the ballots
to which they were attached and attach themselves to other ballots, the
City Elections Commissioner advised the lawyer before the election
that sticker votes would not be counted.

The lawyer instituted a judicial proceeding for an order compelling
the City Elections Commissioner to count sticker votes on the ground
that his refusal to do so violated the constitutional rights of voters.
Which of the following would be the City Elections Commissioner's
most effective argument in support of the constitutionality of his
refusal to count sticker votes?

(A) The lawyer is not entitled to assert the constitutional rights of

others.

(B) The use of sticker votes would interfere with the accuracy and

convenience of ballot counts.

(C) Persons who are unable to read and write English should not be

permitted to vote.

(D) The use of sticker votes would enable a person to vote who was

not familiar with the issues or candidates.

17. The federal Interstate Riverboat Act provides that the minimum wage
for persons employed on river boats engaged in interstate commerce
shall be $6.50 per hour and authorizes the United States Department of
Labor to impose sanctions for violations of its provisions.

As part of a new tourism campaign, the state runs scenic cruises on a
river that serves as a border between it and another state. Persons

104

employed by the state as crew members are regulated by the state
Civil Service Code. Employees making less than $6.50 per hour assert
a claim against the state in a federal court for money damages
consisting of the difference between the wages they have been
receiving and $6.50 per hour as required under the federal Interstate
Riverboat Act. If the state moves to dismiss the action, should the
motion to dismiss be granted?

(A) Yes, under the doctrine of abstention.

(B) Yes, because the Eleventh Amendment to the United States
Constitution grants the states immunity from such actions.

(C) No, because the state employs the plaintiffs to engage in the
business of tourism, which is not a traditional state function.

(D) No, under the Supremacy Clause.

18. The defendant purchased several pornographic videotapes by mail

from a distributor of “adult” products and showed them to friends who
attended a barbecue at his home. The defendant was arrested and
charged with presenting an obscene performance in violation of state
penal code section 123. The distributor was charged with being an
accessory to the defendant's violation.

The defendant pleaded guilty and received a suspended sentence in
return for his promise to testify against the distributor in its
prosecution for being an accessory to the defendant's violation. In
defense against that prosecution, the distributor contended that, as
applied, penal code section 123 unconstitutionally violated the
defendant's constitutional rights. Does the distributor have standing to
assert a violation of the defendant's constitutional rights in its own
defense?

(A) Yes, because the videotapes the defendant had been prosecuted for

showing were purchased from the distributor.

(B) Yes, because any person may challenge the validity of a statute

regulating freedom of expression.

(C) No, because the defendant waived his constitutional rights by

pleading guilty to the prosecution.

(D) No, because no person may defend against a criminal charge by

asserting the constitutional rights of third persons.

105

19. To finance federal aviation services, a federal statute requires the
payment of an annual federal tax of $1,000 on every aircraft of a
certain size. The state Department of Farming owns an airplane that it
uses for aerial surveying of agricultural land in the state. Although the
size of the airplane makes it subject to the tax, the state paid the tax
under protest. If the state sues in an appropriate federal court for the
return of the tax payment that it made to the federal government, the
court should find for

(A) the state, because the power to tax is the power to destroy.

(B) the state, under the doctrine of state immunity.

(C) the federal government, under the doctrine of state subordination.

(D) the federal government, because the state receives benefit from

federal aviation services.

20. The honors program of the state's flagship university appealed to the

state, claiming that the large size of the program was starting to hurt its
effectiveness. In response, the state passed a new law limiting
enrollment in the program to only students who are in the top 5 percent
of their high school class or who score in the top 5 percent of the SAT
or ACT. Importantly, admissions officers are no longer able to take any
other factors into account, such as race, gender, economic
disadvantage, or sports and club membership. A group of concerned
citizens sues, arguing the honors college will not have as diverse of a
student body because race will no longer be taken into account in
determining enrollment. Is the new law constitutional?

(A) Yes, because courts will defer to institutional judgment in matters

of education.

(B) Yes, because it does not mention race or target racial minorities.

(C) No, because the law has a discriminatory effect.

(D) No, because the state has not shown the law is necessary to achieve

a compelling state interest.

21. The federal Protected Shellfish Act provides that contractors hired to

enforce the Act shall be exempt from the payment of state income taxes.
The state imposes a personal income tax on the income of persons
residing within the state. A contractor employed by the federal
government to enforce the Act derives his entire income from his
contract with the federal government. Although the contractor resides

106

in the state, he has refused to pay the state income tax.

If the contractor is prosecuted in a state court for failing to pay the
state income tax, which of the following would be the contractor's
most effective argument in defense against the prosecution?

(A) Income from federal employment is exempt from taxation by the

state.

(B) The state income tax imposes a burden on the federal government,
since it is likely to increase the costs of enforcing the Protected
Shellfish Act.

(C) The state does not have the power to tax income derived from

activities conducted on the high seas.

(D) Under the Necessary and Proper Clause, Congress has the power to

exempt federal contractors from the payment of state tax.

22. The state requires persons applying for state welfare assistance,

driver's licenses, admission to the state university, or certain other
state benefits to list their federal social security numbers as part of
their applications. In this connection, state agencies refer to an
applicant's social security number as his or her “Central File Number.”
The plaintiff has brought an action in a federal court against certain
specified state officials for an order enjoining them from using social
security numbers in this fashion. In support of his position, the plaintiff
argues that at some time almost all citizens of the state apply for some
form of state benefit, and that the compilation of a central file on each
citizen of the state is likely to have a chilling effect on the exercise of
rights granted by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.

The clearest reason for the dismissal of the plaintiff's suit is that

(A) the action is unripe.

(B) the question presented is moot.

(C) under the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution,

state officials are immune to lawsuits of this kind.

(D) the creation of a central file on each person applying for state

benefits involves the resolution of political questions.

23. The city council passed an ordinance making it illegal to sell meat that
had not been certified by the city health department. A grocer was soon

107

arrested after selling uncertified meat. The grocer admitted violating
the ordinance but argued that the ordinance was not valid under the
United States Constitution.

Does the city's municipal court have jurisdiction to determine the
constitutionality of the ordinance?

(A) No, if determining the constitutionality of the ordinance requires

interpretation of the United States Constitution.

(B) No, because the grocer will not have standing to challenge the

constitutionality of the ordinance until he has been convicted of
violating it.

(C) Yes, because any court has the power to interpret the United States

Constitution.

(D) Yes, only if the municipal court is a state court under the laws of

the state.

24. After severe flooding in several states, Congress passed a law creating
grants available to state governments that could only be used to fund
new flood-control projects on state rivers and streams. The money
could not be used for any other purpose. A citizen group challenged the
law, arguing it was unconstitutional because it took away fiscal
decision-making from the states. Is the new law constitutional?

(A) Yes, because it necessarily affects interstate commerce.

(B) Yes, because Congress may tax and spend for the general welfare.

(C) No, because there is no indication the grants are limited to federal

property.

(D) No, because there is no indication the rivers and streams are

navigable waters.

25. In which of the following fact situations has there most clearly been a

violation of the plaintiff's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment to the
United States Constitution?

(A) Plaintiff is a black person whose application for state employment
was rejected because he failed to pass the state Civil Service
examination. Statistics reveal that 10 percent of the black
applicants and 60 percent of the white applicants who have taken
the exam have passed it.

108

(B) Plaintiff is an American of Mexican descent who was denied
admission to a privately owned hospital solely because of her
ethnic background, but who received competent professional
treatment at a state hospital instead.

(C) Plaintiff is a Jewish person who resided in a federally operated
housing project, and who was excluded from a prayer breakfast
held by the federal agency that ran the project solely because of his
religion.

(D) Plaintiff is a woman whose application for employment as a deputy

sheriff was rejected by the county solely because of her sex.

26. The state recently passed a law that prohibits the drivers of trucks over
a certain length from driving within the state for more than four hours
without stopping to rest for at least 30 minutes. A trucker was
prosecuted for violating the law while driving a truck through the state
on an interstate run. As part of his defense, he asserted that the state
statute was unconstitutional in that it unduly burdened interstate
commerce. The trial court took judicial notice that there is no federal
law requiring interstate truck drivers to stop for rest breaks.

In view of the absence of a federal law requiring interstate truck
drivers to stop for rest breaks, which of the following is the state's
most effective argument in support of the constitutionality of the
statute?

(A) The absence of a federal law indicates that Congress does not

regard the matter as one requiring national uniformity.

(B) The requirement that truck drivers stop for rest breaks is largely a

matter of local concern.

(C) The statute requiring truck drivers to stop for rest breaks is

enforceable only within the state.

(D) In the absence of preemptive legislation by Congress, a state is free

to impose restrictions on interstate commerce.

27. A state statute known as the Unlawful Assembly Law contains the

following provision:

Section I—It shall be a misdemeanor for any group of three or more
persons to gather on a public sidewalk and to deliberately conduct
themselves in a manner that is offensive to passersby.

109

When the governor of the state refused to grant a pardon to a college
student who had been convicted of destroying state college property
during a campus protest, members of a student organization decided to
disrupt state government operations by conducting a loud and
boisterous demonstration outside a state government office building
that they selected at random. About 30 members gathered on the
sidewalk outside the building with noisemakers and musical
instruments and began marching while making a loud and disturbing
noise. Several persons who had business inside the building were
unable to get past the crowd of demonstrators to enter. The defendant,
one of the participants, was arrested for marching and shouting
obscene words that many passersby found offensive.

The defendant is prosecuted for violating Section I of the Unlawful
Assembly Law. He defends by asserting that the section is overbroad.
The court should find him

(A) guilty, because his conduct was in fact offensive to passersby.

(B) guilty, because the reasonable passerby would have been offended

by the defendant's conduct.

(C) guilty, because the reasonable person in the defendant's position
would have known that his or her conduct would be offensive to
passersby.

(D) not guilty, because some of the conduct that the law prohibited is

constitutionally protected.

28. In a certain presidential election, relations between the United States
and a foreign republic were the basis of a substantial disagreement
between the candidates, each supporting the view of his political party.
After taking office, the new President communicated with the U.S.
ambassador to the republic, who had been appointed by the former
President (a member of the opposing party) with the advice and
consent of the Senate. The new President demanded that the
ambassador either agree to support the foreign policy contained in his
party's platform or resign. When the ambassador refused to do either,
the new President told him that he was dismissed from the office of
ambassador.

Given the facts, did the new President have the power to remove the
ambassador from office?

110

(A) Yes, because ideological differences constitute cause for dismissal

from ambassadorial office.

(B) Yes, because the President has the power to dismiss ambassadors

without cause.

(C) No, because an ambassador appointed with the advice and consent
of the Senate cannot be dismissed from office without the advice
and consent of the Senate.

(D) No, because removal of an ambassador is a de facto withdrawal of

diplomatic relations with a foreign power.

29. The Assembly Appropriations Committee of the State Assembly of the
state was considering a bill that would appropriate state funds for
advertising the availability of abortion to indigent women. Prior to
discussion of the bill, the Committee directed the state attorney general
to seek an advisory opinion from the state court regarding the validity
of the proposed bill under both the state and the federal constitutions.
The attorney general made the appropriate ex parte motion pursuant to
the state procedure code before the Court of Errors, the highest court in
the state. The Court of Errors rendered an advisory opinion in which it
stated that the proposed bill did not violate the state constitution, but
that it did violate the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

The Assembly Appropriations Committee voted to reject the proposed
legislation in reliance on the advisory opinion of the Court of Errors.
Does the United States Supreme Court have jurisdiction to review the
advisory opinion rendered by the state Court of Errors?

(A) Yes, because it interpreted a section of the United States

Constitution.

(B) Yes, because the decision did not rest on an adequate state ground.
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
(C) No, because an advisory opinion is not a case or controversy under

the United States Constitution.

(D) No, because there has been no opportunity for appellate review by

a state court.

30. A city is home to a large state college, and many students rent houses
together in the city neighborhoods. Due to problems with noise, trash,
and other complaints, the city passes an ordinance making it illegal for

111

any one household to have more than five people under the age of 23
living under the same roof. A family with five children, ages 22, 21,
19, 15, and 14, challenges the law, arguing the law violates their
constitutional rights. Is the ordinance constitutional?

(A) Yes, because three of the children are legally adults and not part of

a protected class.

(B) Yes, because the ordinance is valid as a means of protecting the

health and welfare of city residents.

(C) No, because it violates the family's right of privacy.

(D) No, because there is no indication the law's effect will be limited

to students attending the state college.

31. In the Mutual Aid Treaty of 1957, the United States and a foreign

republic agreed to defend each other against aggression. In connection
with a century-old border dispute, one of the republic's neighbors
recently threatened to attack the republic if the republic did not
relinquish its claim to a certain peninsula. At the request of the
republic's prime minister, the President of the United States has
ordered United States troops to be flown to the republic immediately
for the purpose of defending the republic against attack.

If the President's order is challenged in an appropriate proceeding in a
federal court, the strongest argument in support of the validity of the
order is that the President

(A) has the power to declare war.

(B) has the power to commit United States armed forces to foreign

hostilities to satisfy treaty obligations.

(C) has the power to make treaties with the advice and consent of the

senate.

(D) is the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy.

32. A student attended a privately owned medical college. One weekend
during the school semester, the student was arrested by city police for
participating in a demonstration against the government's position on
nuclear disarmament. When the student was brought before a judge for
arraignment, however, the court dismissed the charge with the consent
of the public prosecutor. The following day, the dean of college called
the student into her office. The dean referred to the arrest and said that

112

because his conduct had embarrassed the school, the student was
expelled. The student subsequently sued the college for damages
resulting from his dismissal.

The most effective argument in support of the student's claim is that the
dismissal violated the student's right

(A) to an administrative hearing.

(B) to due process.

(C) to freedom of expression.

(D) under an implied contract with the college.

33. In which of the following fact situations is the plaintiff most likely to

have standing in a federal court to challenge the statute involved on the
ground that it is unconstitutional?

(A) The plaintiff is the chairperson of an organization dedicated to

preventing cruelty to animals. She sues in that capacity to enjoin the
enforcement of a state statute that permits state officials to seize
and destroy unlicensed dogs without notice to their owners.

(B) The plaintiff is a state in which mining is a major industry. It is

suing for a judgment declaring unconstitutional a federal statute that
imposes a tax on the mining of certain specified metals on the
ground that the tax invidiously discriminates against members of
the mining industry.

(C) The plaintiff is a federal taxpayer. He sues to recover taxes paid by
him under protest on the ground that the money so paid is being
used to support military activities against a nation with which the
United States is not at war, and that the statute authorizing its use
for that purpose is therefore unconstitutional.

(D) The plaintiff is a state taxpayer whose taxes are used, among other

purposes, to support the activities of local school districts.
Although she has no children of school age, the plaintiff is suing to
enjoin enforcement of a state law, the terms of which permit
counselors employed by local school districts to advise students
about Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).

34. After examining the effects of diesel exhaust on the environment,
Congress enacts a statute requiring the owners of diesel-powered
trucks used in interstate commerce to pay a diesel-powered vehicle use

113

tax of $800 per vehicle. A trucking company that operates more than
1,000 trucks in interstate commerce refuses to pay the diesel-powered
vehicle use tax and sues in a federal court for an injunction prohibiting
the enforcement of the tax statute. Which of the following is the
company's most effective argument in opposition to the tax?

(A) The tax is regulatory in nature.

(B) Imposition of the tax violates the company's right to Equal
Protection under the Fifth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

(C) The tax is so burdensome as to amount to a taking of private

property, for which just compensation is required.

(D) The tax is coercive in nature, since it is likely to discourage the use

of diesel-powered vehicles in interstate commerce.

35. Several years ago, the state legalized certain forms of gambling and
began issuing licenses for the operation of gambling casinos. Since
then, legal gambling has become the state's most economically
significant industry. People travel to the state from all over the United
States to visit nearly 2,000 licensed casinos located within the state.
All of the casinos discourage the use of cash at gaming tables and sell
chips for gamblers to use when participating in the games that they
operate. For this reason, many visitors to the state find themselves to
be in possession of chips when returning home. For the convenience of
tourists, the state legislature passed the Casino Chip Law requiring
restaurants and retail business located at state airports, train stations,
and bus terminals to accept chips from customers in lieu of cash, at
two-thirds the face value of the chips so tendered. The owner of a
restaurant located at an airport in the state was prosecuted in a state
court for violating the state law by refusing to accept casino chips from
a customer who attempted to use them to pay for food purchased at the
restaurant.

If the restaurant owner defends by asserting that the law violates the
United States Constitution, which of the following arguments would
most effectively support his position?

(A) The law denied the restaurant owner due process, since it required
him to give up merchandise without receiving cash in return.

(B) By its terms, the law violated the Commerce Clause, since the

114

businesses that were subject to it were all involved in interstate
travel.

(C) The power to coin and fix the value of money is exclusively that of

Congress.

(D) Requiring the restaurant to accept casino chips in return for
merchandise is a taking of private property without just
compensation.

36. After several studies show United States students are falling behind on
their math scores when compared to other nations, Congress passes a
provision providing for the distribution of free math textbooks to
students in both public and private schools. The books contain no
mention of religion or religious instruction. The vast majority of
private schools in most states are religiously affiliated. A concerned
federal taxpayer challenges the provision, arguing it unconstitutionally
supports religious entities. Does the taxpayer have standing to make the
challenge?

(A) Yes, because any federal taxpayer can challenge congressional

spending authorizations.

(B) Yes, because the taxpayer's claim is based on a possible violation

concerning the limits of congressional spending authority.

(C) No, because there is no proof that any money freed up by the free

textbooks will be spent for religious purposes.

(D) No, because the taxpayer hasn't shown a sufficient nexus between

his claim and the book expenditures.

37. In 2009, the United States and a foreign republic entered into a treaty
by which each country agreed not to tax citizens of the other. Pursuant
to that treaty, Congress enacted the National Tax Immunity Act, which
exempts nationals of the republic residing in the United States from the
obligation to pay income tax to the United States. Recently, however, a
United States citizen living in the republic was prosecuted by the
republic's government for failing to pay the republic's income tax. Last
week, the President of the United States issued an executive order
requiring the Internal Revenue Service to begin collecting income tax
from the republic's citizens residing in the United States.

Which of the following persons would be most likely to have standing
to challenge the constitutional validity of the presidential order in a

115

federal court?

(A) An organization dedicated to the principle that the United States

should keep its promises.

(B) A United States citizen who owns land both in the United States and

in the republic.

(C) A citizen of the republic living in the United States.

(D) A representative of the republic's government suing on behalf of the

republic.

38. In an attempt to reduce air pollution caused by the use of fossil fuels,
Congress passes the Fossil Fuel Use Tax Act, which imposes a tax
upon the owners of buildings heated by burning fossil fuels. The state
owns an office building which was once used to house state
government offices. Since the state government moved to new quarters,
offices in the building have been rented by the state to tenants engaged
in various aspects of private enterprise. Although the building is heated
by fossil fuels, the state has refused to pay the tax imposed by the
Fossil Fuel Use Tax Act. The federal government has commenced a
proceeding against the state for taxes due under the Fossil Fuel Use Tax
Act as a result of the use of fossil fuel to heat the building.

Which of the following is the most effective argument in support of the
federal government's position?

(A) Under Article I of the United States Constitution, Congress has

unlimited power to impose taxes.

(B) Protection of the environment is a legitimate reason for imposing a

tax.

(C) The states owe the federal government the obligation of paying

those taxes fixed by federal law.

(D) As applied, the Fossil Fuel Use Tax Act taxes the state's activities

as a landlord rather than as a state.

39. After examining studies indicating that chewing gum was directly

related to the incidence of tooth decay, the state legislature enacted a
law prohibiting the advertising of chewing gum in all media. Which of
the following is the clearest reason for holding the law to be
unconstitutional?

116

(A) A state may not interfere with commercial speech.

(B) The sale of chewing gum frequently involves interstate commerce.

(C) The law imposes a prior restraint on publication.

(D) There are less restrictive ways of protecting the public against

tooth decay that would be equally effective.

40. Congress enacted a statute making education through the 12th grade

compulsory. Which one of the following facts or inferences, if it was
the only one true, would be most likely to lead to finding that the statute
is constitutionally valid?

(A) The majority of people living in states that have inadequate
compulsory education requirements are members of ethnic
minorities.

(B) Educational levels in England, France, China, and Russia are
superior to those in several states in the United States.

(C) By its terms, the statute is applicable only to residents of the
District of Columbia and of United States military bases.

(D) The majority of schoolchildren in the United States move from one
state to another at some time during the first 12 years of their
education.

41. While serving a 10-year sentence for murder in state prison, the

defendant was accused of leading a riot that resulted in the death of a
prison guard. Without a hearing, the warden ordered the defendant
placed in solitary confinement for the remainder of his sentence. The
defendant sued in a United States district court for an order directing
his removal from solitary confinement on the grounds that he was
deprived of due process and that solitary confinement for the
remainder of his sentence was a cruel and unusual punishment. The
district court rendered judgment against the defendant, who appealed to
the United States Court of Appeals. The United States Court of
Appeals affirmed, and the defendant petitioned for certiorari to the
United States Supreme Court. While the defendant's petition was
pending, parole officials voted to release him from prison although it
was three years before the end of his sentence, on condition that he
meet with a federal probation officer once per month, that he seek
gainful employment, that he refrain from consorting with criminals, and
that he be returned immediately to prison upon violation of any of the

117

conditions of parole. In opposing the defendant's petition for certiorari,
the state's attorney asserted that his release from prison made the issue
moot.

Which of the following is the strongest reason for finding that the
issues presented by the defendant's petition are NOT moot?

(A) The defendant is no longer a prisoner.

(B) In granting parole, parole officials have acknowledged a violation

of the defendant's constitutional rights.

(C) The defendant's claim is capable of repetition if it evades judicial

review.

(D) The defendant might be returned to solitary confinement if he is re-

incarcerated for violating the conditions of his parole.

42. A state statute provides that no person can be elected to state office
who is not a citizen of the United States. The constitutionality of the
statute is challenged in an appropriate action by the plaintiff.

If the court hearing the plaintiff's challenge takes judicial notice of the
treaties and immigration laws of the United States, it will be because
they are relevant to the validity of the statute under

(A) the Supremacy Clause.

(B) the Privileges and Immunities Clause.

(C) the due process requirement.

(D) the doctrine of separation of powers.

43. Under which of the following circumstances is a court most likely to
uphold the constitutionality of a statute that requires the taking of a
loyalty oath by public employees?

(A) Only persons appointed to state office by the governor are required

by law to take the loyalty oath.

(B) The statute requires that the loyalty oath be taken by all state

employees.

(C) The loyalty oath required by the statute consists entirely of a

promise “to uphold the United States Constitution and to oppose the
overthrow of the state or federal government by unlawful means.”

118

(D) The loyalty oath is required only of persons appointed to positions
with the state militia that are likely to expose them to classified
information.

44. In an attempt to improve air quality, several states pass laws providing
that vehicles powered by diesel engines of more than a certain size
must be equipped with a specified smog-elimination system to be
driven on highways within the state. A trucking company challenges
such a law in the state on the ground that it unreasonably burdens
interstate commerce. Which of the following is the state's best
argument in support of the law?

(A) The law applies to intrastate as well as interstate shipments.

(B) The law applies to all vehicles traveling through the state,
including those that are garaged primarily in the state.

(C) The law is necessary to protect the health and safety of residents of

the state.

(D) Other states have similar requirements.

45. A coastal state has enacted the Ocean Fishing License Act, which
regulates the right to fish in coastal waters. Section 1 of the Act
provides that no person shall fish in the ocean from a vessel registered
in the state who has not obtained an ocean-fishing license from the state
Department of Fish and Game. Section 2 of the Act sets the fees for
ocean-fishing licenses at $10 per year for residents of the state and $20
per year for nonresidents. Section 3 of the Act provides that if any
section of the Act is found invalid for any reason, such finding should
not affect the validity of any other section of the Act.

Which of the following would provide the strongest basis for
declaring Section 1 of the Ocean Fishing License Act to be INVALID?

(A) A federal law that authorizes a federal agency to issue licenses for

fishing in coastal waters of the United States.

(B) The absence of any federal law regulating fishing in coastal waters

of the United States.

(C) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the

United States Constitution.

(D) The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United

States Constitution.

119

46. The state enacts legislation appropriating several million dollars of

state funds to be spent on conservation of agricultural lands within the
state. The statute directs the distribution of such funds to Agricultural
Conservation Districts geographically equivalent to the counties of the
state, authorizes the creation of such Agricultural Conservation
Districts, and empowers them with responsibility for administering
funds assigned to them. The statute provides that fiscal decisions of
each District shall be made by a Board of Governors to be elected by
its residents. The statute also provides that participation in district
elections is open only to persons who are able to pass a simple test of
reading and writing in the English language and who own agricultural
land within the geographic boundaries of the District, and that voters in
such elections may cast one vote for each acre of agricultural land that
they own within the District.

The constitutionality of the statute has been challenged by a litigant
who claims that it violates the “one person, one vote” principle. The
best argument in response to that claim is that the principle

(A) applies only to elections for statewide and federal office.

(B) does not apply where property rights are involved.

(C) does not apply because of rights reserved to the states by the Tenth

Amendment.

(D) does not apply because results of District elections will principally

affect the owners of agricultural land.

47. In a case where the constitutionality of a state law regulating the sale of
birth control devices is in issue, which party will have the burden of
persuasion?

(A) The state, because procreation involves a fundamental right, and

the law may have a substantial impact on that right.

(B) The state, because the state law is more likely to have a substantial

impact on women than on men.

(C) The person challenging the statute, since there is a rebuttable

presumption that all state laws are constitutional.

(D) The person challenging the statute, since the regulation on non-

expressive sexual conduct is reserved to for the states by the Tenth
Amendment.

120

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

48. A state law makes it a crime to interfere with “any right conferred by

the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution.” In which one of the following cases is the
defendant LEAST likely to be convicted of violating the law?

(A) The defendant, the manager of an apartment building funded and

operated by a federal housing agency, refused to rent an apartment
to a black family solely because of their race.

(B) The defendant, the commissioner of police of a large city, refused
to hire homosexuals as police officers solely because of their
sexual preference.

(C) The defendant, threatening violence, induced a school bus driver,
employed by a public school district, to refuse Jewish students
rides solely because of their religion.

(D) The defendant, the proprietor of a restaurant located in a state
office building and rented from the state, refused to serve
Vietnamese immigrants solely because of their place of national
origin.

49. After the state raised property taxes, the defendant became active in an
organization against tax raises. As part of a protest, the defendant
paraded nude in front of the tax collector's office, carrying a sign that
read, “Soaring taxes take the clothes off our backs!” The defendant was
arrested under a statute newly enacted by the state legislature. The
complete text of the law was, “No person shall behave in a shocking or
offensive manner in a public place. Any violation of this section shall
be punished by a term not to exceed six months in a county detention
facility.”

If the defendant defends by asserting that the statute is unconstitutional,
his most effective argument would be that

(A) under the First and Fourteenth Amendments, expressive conduct

may not be punished by the state.

(B) the statute is vague.

(C) the reasonable person is not likely to have been shocked or

offended by the defendant's conduct.

(D) conviction under a newly enacted statute is a violation of due

process.

121

50. A law permitting the payment of public funds as financial aid to
schools operated by religious organizations is most likely to be
constitutionally valid if it directs payment to

(A) primary schools, for enhancement of the salaries of teachers who

do not instruct on religious subjects.

(B) primary schools at which no more than 10 percent of the

instructional time is spent on religious subjects, for the purchase of
laboratory equipment.

(C) secondary schools, for the purchase of textbooks on secular

subjects.

(D) colleges, for the purchase of athletic equipment.

51. Because a river is wide, deep, and flows through several states, it is an
important thoroughfare for interstate commercial cargo ships. The
state, through which the river flows, has passed a law imposing strict
water pollution controls on ships using rivers within the state. A
transport company that operates ships on the river has challenged the
statute, asserting that it violates the Commerce Clause of the United
States Constitution.

Which one of the following facts or inferences, if found to be true,
would be most likely to result in a finding that the statute is
constitutionally valid?

(A) The river is a source of water for agricultural irrigation in all the

states through which it passes.

(B) Congress has not prohibited state regulation of water pollution.

(C) Congress has enacted laws regulating water pollution in interstate

rivers.

(D) The company operates only within the state.

52. The defendant was a member of an organization that worshipped 12
different deities, each said to be in charge of a different field of
worldly activity. Each month of the year, the organization conducts a
festival dedicated to a different one of the deities. In March, a festival
was held to honor the goddess of love. As part of the festival, members
met to engage in activities involving nudity and group sexual
intercourse. Along with other members of the organization, the
defendant, who participated in the festival, was arrested by police

122

from the county vice squad. He was convicted of violating a state law
that made it a crime “for any adult to engage in sexual intercourse with
another while any third person is present.”

If the defendant appeals, the conviction

(A) must be overturned, because the group sexual activity was required

by a reasonable interpretation of the organization's religious
beliefs.

(B) must be overturned, because the conduct was part of the free

exercise of a religion.

(C) may be upheld, on the ground that an organization that worships

multiple deities is not a “religion” for First Amendment purposes.

(D) may be upheld, even if the group sexual activity was required by

the defendant's sincere religious beliefs.

53. A state statute made the distribution of birth control illegal. The law

had been on the books for 80 years, with one reported prosecution. Ten
married couples and a doctor challenged the law's constitutionality in
federal court. In doing so, they alleged that they violated the law
repeatedly. The court believed that it was very unlikely that the state
would enforce the law. The court should find

(A) the case cannot be decided because it is not yet ripe.

(B) the case cannot be decided because it is moot.

(C) the case can be decided because violation of the law is capable of

repetition.

(D) the case can be decided since the couples and the doctor have

admitted to violating the law.

54. A small political organization advocates racial segregation and

occasionally runs a candidate for election to office in the state. The
organization planned to hold a campaign rally at the state capitol two
weeks prior to the last statewide election. Because anonymous threats
of violence were received by the state police, however, a state court
issued an injunction prohibiting the organization from conducting any
public rallies until after the election. After the election was over, the
organization sought United States Supreme Court review of the state
court's decision.

123

The United States Supreme Court should

(A) review the state court's decision if the organization desires to hold

future rallies in the state.

(B) review the state court's decision, because any interference with the
right to assemble violates the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

(C) not review the state court's decision, since the question presented

has become moot.

(D) not review the state court's decision, since the aims of the

organization violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution.

55. In 1999, the state enacted the Energy Conservation Tax Rebate Act,
creating a state income tax credit for persons who installed solar
and/or wind-powered generators in residential realty. The plaintiff
began to install a solar generator in his home in the state in November
2012, but did not complete the installation until February 2013. In
December 2012, however, the state legislature repealed the Energy
Conservation Tax Rebate Act, effective January 1, 2013.

If the plaintiff challenged the repeal of the Act on the ground that it
was constitutionally invalid, his most effective argument would be that
repeal of the statute violated the

(A) Obligations of Contracts Clause.

(B) Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(C) Privileges and Immunities Clause.

(D) Just Compensation Clause.

56. Congress passes a law requiring all females who are 18 years of age to
register for a new draft. A nonprofit organization advertises that it will
provide an attorney and defend without charge any female prosecuted
for failing to register. State statutes prohibit advertising by attorneys. If
the Bar Association of the state sues to enjoin further publication of the
advertisement in that state, the injunction should be

(A) granted, because state statutes prohibit advertising by attorneys.

(B) granted, since the advertisement could have the effect of

encouraging young women to violate the law.

124

(C) denied, since the advertisement constitutes commercial speech.

(D) denied, under the First Amendment to the United States

Constitution.

57. Congress passes the Schools Construction Act, providing for grants of
federal funds to states to help finance the construction of new school
buildings. A section of the Act provides that states that do not alter
their building codes to prohibit the use in school construction of certain
substances listed as carcinogenic (cancer-causing) are ineligible for
federal funds under the law. The state is the home of an industry that
produces one of the materials listed in the federal law as carcinogenic.
Its legislature has refused to alter the state building code to conform to
the requirements of the Schools Construction Act.

In a federal court, which of the following potential plaintiffs is most
likely to be able to obtain a judicial determination of the validity of
the section of the Schools Construction Act dealing with state building
codes?

(A) The parent of a child who currently attends a public school in the

state and who fears that the quality of education in the state will
decline if the state does not receive federal funds for school
construction.

(B) An organization dedicated to protecting the concept of “states
rights” against encroachment by the federal government.

(C) A taxpayer of the United States and the state, who fears that if the
state does not receive federal funds for school construction, her
state taxes will be increased to pay for school construction that
would otherwise have been federally funded.

(D) A building contractor who has been hired by the state to construct a
school building, under a contract that is contingent upon receipt by
the state of federal school-construction funds to which it would
otherwise be entitled.

58. A law in the state requires any person doing business in that state to

obtain a business license from the state's Department of Commerce. A
recently enacted amendment to that statute prohibits convicted felons in
the state from doing business in that state and authorizes the state's
Department of Commerce to deny a business license to any such
person.

125

The plaintiff, a convicted felon who was released from a state prison
after completion of his sentence, applied for a business license after
the passage of the amendment described above. He brings an action in
a federal court to enjoin the state's Department of Commerce from
enforcing the amendment against him on the ground that it is
constitutionally invalid.

The plaintiff's strongest argument is that

(A) states are forbidden by the Obligation of Contracts Clause from

interfering with the rights of felons to do business.

(B) the statute unreasonably interferes with the right of felons to travel

from one state to another.

(C) the statute violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(D) he has already paid his debt to society and should be given the
opportunity to make a fresh start in life by engaging in a lawful
occupation.

59. Congressional legislation abolishing all legal penalties for gambling

could most easily be upheld

(A) as a regulation of interstate and international commerce.

(B) under the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution.

(C) if scientific studies showed gambling to be a harmless activity.

(D) if it applied only to the District of Columbia.

60. The plaintiff, a resident of the state, recently lost her job when her

employer went out of business. While employed, the plaintiff worked
on the night shift and attended college during the day. She applied for
unemployment compensation benefits under the state's Unemployment
Compensation Act. Although she was otherwise entitled to benefits,
she was denied them under a provision of the Act that prohibits the
payment of benefits to any person who attends school between the
hours of 8 A.M. and 6 P.M. After exhausting all administrative
remedies, the plaintiff appealed the denial of benefits, asserting that the
prohibition against payment of benefits to day students violated the
Equal Protection Clause.

Which of the following is the minimum finding that would result in a

126

ruling that the statute is constitutionally valid?

(A) The classification is a reasonable way of protecting a compelling

state interest.

(B) The classification has a rational basis.

(C) The receipt of unemployment benefits is a privilege rather than a

right.

(D) The payment of benefits to day students would result in a clear and

present danger.

61. The state requires all public and private hospitals to be accredited by

the state Department of Health, which is empowered to inspect hospital
facilities prior to accreditation and as a condition of continued
accreditation. All hospital employees are required to be licensed by
the Department of Health. The Department is also responsible for the
distribution of funds under a state law that provides financial aid to all
accredited hospitals for the purchase of equipment. The state law
makes each hospital's share proportional to the number of patients that
it treated the previous year.

A privately operated hospital accredited by the state denies admission
to whites except under emergency circumstances. An organization has
brought an action against the hospital in a state court for an injunction
directing it to discontinue its racially exclusionary policy on the
ground that it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Which of the following is the strongest argument in
support of the position taken by the organization?

(A) Under the Fourteenth Amendment, no place of public

accommodation may discriminate against persons because of their
race.

(B) The licensing of hospital employees by the state requires the
hospital to act as the state would act in complying with
requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires
the state court to eliminate racial discrimination in places of public
accommodation.

(D) The state's involvement in hospital regulation and support makes
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment

127

applicable to the hospital.

62. In which of the following cases is the defendant's conviction most

likely to be reversed on constitutional grounds?

(A) The defendant is convicted of operating a theater showing

pornographic films in violation of a zoning ordinance that prohibits
such activity from being conducted within 500 feet of a school.

(B) The defendant is convicted of giving weekly parties at his home at
which obscene films are shown to persons who pay an entrance
fee, in violation of a county ordinance that prohibits the display to
groups of three or more persons of materials defined by state law
as obscene.

(C) The defendant, a professional bookseller, is convicted of selling an
obscene book to an undercover police officer, in violation of a
state law that provides: “It shall be a misdemeanor for any person
to sell or to possess for the purposes of sale any obscene book,
magazine, or other publication.”

(D) The defendant, a magazine publisher, is convicted of sending

obscene materials through the mails in a trial at which the court
permitted the introduction of evidence that the defendant advertised
his magazine in a way that pandered to the prurient interests of
readers.

63. Relations between the United States of America and another country
have been strained for the past four decades. In an attempt to improve
these relations, the President of the United States and the Premier of the
other country enter into a series of executive agreements. One of these
agreements requires the government of each country to discourage its
press from making derogatory references about the other country. At the
President's request and in support of that agreement, Congress enacts
the Friendly Nations Publications Act, which prohibits the publication
of certain specified disparaging statements about the other country in
any magazine or newspaper published by the armed forces of the
United States.

Which of the following would be the strongest argument against the
constitutionality of the Friendly Nations Publications Act?

(A) The President lacked the power to make an executive agreement
requiring the United States to discourage its press from making

128

derogatory references to the other country.

(B) The executive agreement could have been implemented in a less

burdensome manner.

(C) The executive agreement violates the First Amendment to the

United States Constitution.

(D) The Friendly Nations Publications Act violates the First

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

64. A police officer frequently visited a website where random users

could video chat with each other. After five minutes, the video chat
would switch to another random user in the system. Most users
engaged in sexually explicit conduct while on the site. The police
officer also engaged in sexually explicit conduct on the site, often
while in his uniform. The police department discovered that the officer
was using the site and fired him. The officer sued, arguing that the
firing violated his First Amendment rights. The police department
firing

(A) violated his right to freedom of speech.

(B) violated his right to freedom of association.

(C) violated his right to freedom of assembly.

(D) did not violate his First Amendment rights.

65. Congress passes a law that provides that whenever the President of the
United States delegates any person to travel to a foreign nation for the
purpose of negotiating an executive agreement, the President must
designate a member of the United States Senate to accompany and
advise that person. The President vetoes the law, but the presidential
veto is overridden by a two-thirds majority of both houses of
Congress. The President subsequently delegates an ambassador to
travel to a foreign nation for the purpose of negotiating an executive
agreement without appointing a member of the United States Senate to
accompany and advise the ambassador.

Which of the following arguments would most effectively justify that
action by the President?

(A) The President has sole and exclusive power over foreign affairs.

(B) The law unconstitutionally discriminates against members of the

129

House of Representatives.

(C) The law violates the principle of separation of powers by

interfering with the President's power to delegate authority in the
field of foreign affairs.

(D) A presidential veto of a law relating to foreign affairs is final, and

may not be overridden by Congress.

66. When the plaintiff declared herself to be a candidate for election to the

United States Senate from the state, the state Commissioner of
Elections refused to place her name on the ballot. The commissioner
said that his decision was based on the fact that state records indicated
that the plaintiff was only 27 years of age. The plaintiff subsequently
instituted a proceeding against the commissioner in a state court. After
examining state birth records, and after taking the testimony of the
plaintiff's mother and of a physician who was present at the plaintiff's
birth, the court found that the plaintiff was 30 years of age and directed
the commissioner to list her as a candidate. The plaintiff won the
election, but after she began her term of office, the Senate expelled her,
declaring that she did not meet the constitutional age requirement.

If the plaintiff institutes a proceeding in a federal court for an order
reinstating her to her seat in the Senate, which of the following would
be the most effective argument in support of a motion to dismiss her
proceeding?

(A) The plaintiff should be collaterally estopped from maintaining the

proceeding.

(B) No substantial federal question is presented.

(C) The plaintiff has already had her day in court.

(D) The plaintiff's claim presents a non-justiciable political question.

67. Congress passes the Federal Aid to Scholars Act, providing for grants
of federal funds to college and university students who meet certain
financial and scholastic standards. A provision of the Act, however,
restricts such payments to citizens of the United States. The plaintiff is
a foreign national studying at a university located in the United States
under an appropriate visa granted by the Department of State. If the
plaintiff challenges the constitutionality of the citizenship requirement
of the Federal Aid to Scholars Act, the court should rule that provision

130

(A) valid, because Congress has plenary power to regulate the rights of

aliens.

(B) valid, because resident aliens are not protected by the United States

Constitution.

(C) invalid, because it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the

Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) invalid, because resident aliens are entitled to the same

constitutional protections as citizens.

68. After several natural disasters, a new state law required property

owners to permit cable television companies to install cable lines in
their buildings so that all state residents would have immediate and
reliable access to government notices, news, and other emergency
information. A landlord sued, arguing that the mandatory cabling
resulted in a taking. The landlord belonged to a church that believed
television violence was the main cause of several recent school
shootings. During trial, the state showed that the encroachment on
landowners' properties only consisted of cables less than ½ inch in
diameter and had a minimal economic impact on the property owner. In
determining the existence of a taking, the court should rule in favor of

(A) the landlord, because there was a physical invasion of the property.

(B) the landlord, because he belonged to a church that was anti-

television.

(C) the state, because there was an important countervailing interest in

informing the public during natural disasters.

(D) the state, because the physical invasion and economic impact of the

statute was minimal.

69. The Clean Roads Act authorized the state Department of Transportation
to determine without a hearing the identity of persons spilling toxic
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
chemicals on state highways and to order the removal of such
chemicals by such persons. The law also provided that failure to
comply with such an order within 30 days after receiving it was a
crime. On May 1, state investigators submitted a report stating that a
leak in the defendant's truck had caused the deposit of chemical
residues on roads within the state during the period from January 2012
through January 2013. The same day, the Department of Transportation
ordered the defendant to remove all chemical residues from the roads

131

of the state. The defendant refused to do so, and on August 15 he was
convicted of violating the Clean Roads Act by failing to comply with
the Department of Transportation order.

If the defendant appeals his conviction, his most effective argument
would be that the Clean Roads Act

(A) was an ex post facto law.

(B) was a bill of attainder.

(C) violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the

United States Constitution.

(D) violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to

the United States Constitution.

70. A recently enacted state statute provides that no person shall be granted
a high school diploma without first passing a series of examinations
designed to test minimum competency in reading, writing, mathematics,
and United States history. The statute requires that the examinations are
to be written by the state Board of Regents and are to be administered
on the same day throughout the state. It further provides that each high
school in the state may elect to have the examinations administered
either by its own employees or, without cost, by agents of the state.

The plaintiff, a taxpayer of the state, has sued in a federal court to
enjoin the state from enforcing the statute on the ground that the
administration of the examinations in religious schools by agents of the
state violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution. Which of the following is the most
effective argument against the plaintiff's claim?

(A) The plaintiff lacks standing to challenge the constitutionality of the

statute.

(B) The law does not discriminate among religions.

(C) The law has neither the effect nor the primary purpose of advancing

religion.

(D) The state has a compelling interest in the competency of high

school graduates.

71. A city ordinance provides as follows:

132

Section 1—No person shall conduct a public speech or demonstration
in  the  city  without  first  obtaining  an  assembly  permit  from  the  city
mayor, who shall not issue such a permit if, in his or her opinion, the
speech  or  demonstration  is  likely  to  result  in  a  breach  of  the  public
peace.

The defendant desired to hold a rally in the city. After submitting his
application for an assembly permit, the defendant stated in a radio
interview that he planned to lead the people at the rally to raid and
burn an abortion clinic operated by the city. Upon hearing the radio
broadcast, the mayor of the city denied the defendant's application.

The defendant conducted the rally, calling for the immediate
destruction by fire of the city abortion clinic. He passed flaming
torches to people in the crowd, saying, “Follow me, and we'll burn out
that nest of evil!” However, he was arrested as the crowd began to
follow him toward the abortion clinic, and he was subsequently
convicted of conducting a public rally without an assembly permit in
violation of the above ordinance. On appeal, the defendant's
conviction should be

(A) reversed, because prior restraint of speech or assembly is
inconsistent with the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

(B) reversed, because although punishment of the defendant's conduct

may be constitutionally valid, his conduct cannot be punished under
this ordinance.

(C) affirmed, because as a result of the defendant's attempt to incite

unlawful action, he lacks standing to challenge the constitutionality
of the ordinance.

(D) affirmed, because an ordinance that requires a permit for the

conduct of a public meeting is constitutionally valid.

72. A state statute provides that:

No producer of unrefined petroleum within the state may sell more
than half its annual production to buyers outside the state.

The plaintiff is a producer of unrefined petroleum within the state and
operates a trucking company for the transportation of his product.

133

There is no federal statute concerning the right of a state to regulate the
sale of unrefined petroleum produced within that state. If the plaintiff
challenges the constitutionality of the statute in an appropriate
proceeding, which of the following would be the plaintiff's most
effective argument?

(A) The production and sale of unrefined petroleum is a matter of
national concern, requiring uniform federal regulation.

(B) The unrefined petroleum sold by the plaintiff remains in its original

package until it reaches the ultimate consumer.

(C) The state's attempt to regulate the sale of unrefined petroleum in

interstate commerce violates the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
United States Constitution.

(D) Regulation of the sale of unrefined petroleum is preempted by

congressional silence.

73. Congress passes the State Highway Subsidy Act, which makes

matching federal funds available to states for the construction of state
highways on condition that states receiving such funds prohibit trucks
longer than a specified size from operating on state highways. The state
has refused to amend its statutes to comply with the Act.

Which of the following persons is most likely to have standing to
challenge the constitutionality of the State Highway Subsidy Act?

(A) A taxpayer of the state who believes that if the state does not
receive matching federal funds for the construction of new
highways, the state's roads will soon become inadequate for use by
its residents.

(B) A federal taxpayer who believes that if the state does not receive
matching federal funds for the construction of new highways, its
roads will soon become inadequate for use in interstate commerce.

(C) A non-partisan political-action membership organization dedicated
to the preservation of “states' rights” that believes that the State
Highway Subsidy Act interferes with the state's right to regulate the
size of trucks using its highways.

(D) A road construction company that has a contract to build a road for
the state and that believes that without matching federal funds, the
state will be unable to honor its contract.

134

74. The defendant was convicted of murder in a state court after a trial in

which evidence was admitted over the defendant's objection that it was
obtained in violation of his Fourth Amendment rights. On appeal to the
highest court in the state, the defendant's conviction was affirmed.
After the defendant's petition for certiorari was denied by the United
States Supreme Court, he filed a petition for habeas corpus in the
appropriate United States District Court on the ground that the
evidence used to convict him was obtained in violation of his Fourth
Amendment rights. The defendant's petition for habeas corpus should
be

(A) granted, because the United States District Court may consider de

novo a constitutional challenge to the admissibility of evidence in a
state court.

(B) granted, because the defendant has exhausted all available state

remedies.

(C) denied, because the United States Supreme Court did not grant

certiorari.

(D) denied, because the state court has already determined that the
defendant's Fourth Amendment rights were not violated by
admission of the evidence.

75. The plaintiff's application for employment as a state police officer was
rejected pursuant to a state law that prohibited state employment of
“sexual deviates,” on the ground that he was a homosexual. The
plaintiff subsequently challenged the validity of the state law in a state
court, asserting that it violated the Equal Protection Clauses of the
constitutions of the United States and of the state, the language of which
is substantially the same. No state court has ever interpreted the phrase
“sexual deviates” as used in the state law.

While his state court action was pending, the plaintiff instituted a
proceeding in a United States district court seeking an order enjoining
the state police commissioner from enforcing the law described above
on the grounds that it violates the federal constitution's Equal
Protection Clause. If the court declines to grant the plaintiff relief, it
will most likely be

(A) based on the abstention doctrine.

(B) based on the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution.

135

(C) on the ground that the question is moot.

(D) on the ground that the plaintiff lacks standing.

76. A state statute requires hairdressers to be licensed by the State

Department of Education. The statute further provides that no person
shall qualify for a hairdresser's license who has not completed a
prescribed program of study, including a two-semester-unit course in
biology. The plaintiff, who held a valid hairdresser's license from
another state, moved to the state and applied to the state Department of
Education for a hairdresser's license. The plaintiff's application was
rejected on the ground that, although he had completed all other
requirements for a state hairdresser's license, he had never studied
biology as required by the state law. If the plaintiff seeks judicial
review of the denial of his application, his most effective argument
would be that the law

(A) has no rational basis.

(B) violates the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States

Constitution.

(C) discriminates against out-of-staters.

(D) violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

77. The defendant placed the following advertisement in a magazine:

STEAMY FORBIDDEN SEX! The United States Supreme Court has
said  that  nobody  can  interfere  with  the  private  possession  of
pornography for private viewing in the privacy of your own home. SO,
NOW,  FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME  EVER,  we  are  offering  films  TOO
HOT  for  commercial  showing.  Fill  out  this  coupon  and  SEND  NOW
for  porno  too  sizzling  to  be  legal  in  theaters  or  clubs.  THIS  OFFER
AVAILABLE  ONLY  FOR  PRIVATE  POSSESSION  FOR  PRIVATE
VIEWING IN THE PRIVACY OF YOUR OWN HOME.

A federal police officer ordered films from the defendant by sending a
check to the address given in the advertisement.

After the officer received the films, the defendant was charged in a
federal court with violating a federal statute that prohibits sending
obscene films through the mail.

136

At the defendant's trial, an attempt is made by the prosecution to offer
into evidence a copy of the advertisement to which the officer had
responded. Upon timely objection by the defendant, the court should
rule the advertisement

(A) admissible, because pandering is not protected by the First

Amendment.

(B) admissible as evidence that the films sold by the defendant appeal

primarily to prurient interest.

(C) inadmissible as constitutionally protected commercial speech.

(D) inadmissible, because the advertisement is not itself obscene.

78. A United States ambassador was appointed by a former President with
the advice and consent of the Senate. Three days after taking office, a
new President requests the ambassador's resignation after the
ambassador posted a photo of himself online in the nude. Upon the
ambassador's refusal to resign, the President issues an order purporting
to remove the ambassador from office. Is the presidential order valid?

(A) Yes, because there was cause for the ambassador's removal from

office.

(B) Yes, because the President has the power to remove ambassadors

without cause.

(C) No, because the President may not remove an ambassador without

the advice and consent of the Senate.

(D) No, because the Senate has not ratified the order by consenting to

the appointment of a new ambassador.

79. The city, as part of an economic development plan for the city's

waterfront area, condemned 15 houses owned by the plaintiffs. The
properties were not blighted and were not rundown in any way. The
plan was to give the properties to a private developer to create new
office space. The plaintiffs challenged the city's action. The court
should rule in favor of

(A) the plaintiffs, because the houses were being given to a private

party.

(B) the plaintiffs, because the houses were in good repair.

(C) the city, because the houses were condemned as part of an

137

economic development plan.

(D) the city, because the condemnation resulted in mere land use

regulation.

80. A state statute provides that no license shall be issued for the marriage
of any male person below the age of 19 years or any female person
below the age of 17 years. An 18-year-old male desires to marry an
18-year-old female. Because of the provisions of the statute, however,
the boy has not yet asked the girl to marry him. If the boy challenges the
statute in a state court, asserting that it violates his rights under the
United States Constitution, which of the following would be the most
effective argument in opposition to the boy's claim?

(A) He lacks standing to challenge the statute.

(B) The statute has a rational basis.

(C) Females mature earlier than males.

(D) The right to regulate marriage is reserved to the states by the Tenth

Amendment.

81. A policy of the State University prohibits use of campus facilities by

persons or organizations without a permit from the University
Chancellor. The plaintiff, a student at State University, is president of a
student organization. On three occasions, the plaintiff's applications for
permits to use a classroom for meetings of the organization were
denied by the University Chancellor. The reason given by the
Chancellor was that the organization advocates interference with
freedom of speech as protected by the state's constitution.

Following the most recent denial of her application, the plaintiff
commenced a proceeding in a U.S. district court seeking an injunction
prohibiting denial of permits to the organization on the ground that it
violates the organization's constitutional right to freedom of assembly.
Before a hearing could be held on the plaintiff's claim, the University
Chancellor reversed his prior decision and granted the organization a
permit for the use of campus facilities, declaring that the philosophy
embraced by a student organization would no longer be considered in
deciding whether that organization would receive a permit for use of
campus facilities. If the University attorney moves to dismiss the
plaintiff's claim, the motion should be

(A) denied, because none of the University Chancellor's decisions were

138

based on an adequate state ground.

(B) denied, because the plaintiff's claim is one that is capable of

repetition and likely to evade judicial review.

(C) denied, because the plaintiff was damaged by past denials of her

application.

(D) granted, because the claim is moot.

82. After archaeologists discovered the fossil remains of a Stone Age

society in the state, Congress passed a law establishing “the National
Museum of Prehistoric Artifacts for the enjoyment and education of all
residents of the United States.” Under the statute, the museum was to be
built in the state, near the site of the archeological find. It was to be
funded entirely by the federal government, using revenues derived from
the national income tax. The federal law provided that the museum was
to display prehistoric artifacts and fossils gathered from all parts of the
United States, in addition to those artifacts that had been discovered in
the state. The attorney general of another state instituted a proceeding
in a federal district court for an injunction against the use of federal
funds to establish the National Museum of Prehistoric Artifacts in the
state, asserting that such expenditure would be an unconstitutional
disbursal of federal funds. Which of the following is most likely to
support a finding in favor of the constitutionality of the federal statute?

(A) The congressional spending power.

(B) The Commerce Clause.

(C) The Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(D) The doctrine of state sovereign immunity.

83. Because of a series of destructive forest fires in the state, the National
Preserve Service issues a regulation closing a national preserve to
public use from dusk to dawn. The national preserve is located entirely
within the state. Although the national preserve is a tract of land owned
by the federal government, people who have state fishing licenses are
permitted to fish in the preserve. As a result of the closing, there is a
reduction in the number of persons applying for state fishing licenses
and this causes a decline in state revenues. For this reason, the state
Department of Fish and Game institutes a proceeding in a federal court,
challenging the constitutionality of the regulation.

139

Which of the following would provide the National Preserve Service
with its strongest argument in support of the constitutionality of its
regulation?

(A) The Commerce Clause of Article I of the United States

Constitution.

(B) The Property Clause of Article IV of the United States Constitution.

(C) The federal police power.

(D) The federal government's right of eminent domain.

84. A state's economy was falling apart because of widespread home
foreclosures. The state passed legislation temporarily ordering a
moratorium on mortgage repayments. A local bank challenged the law,
arguing that the state was unlawfully interfering with private contracts.
During trial, the court found that the state was acting reasonably, and
the moratorium was in pursuit of a legitimate public purpose. The court
should rule in favor of

(A) the bank, because the state may not pass a law impairing the

obligation of private contracts.

(B) the bank, because the state may only pass laws impairing the

obligation of public contracts.

(C) the state, because the state is acting reasonably in pursuit of a

legitimate public purpose.

(D) the state, because only the federal government is subject to the

Contract Clause.

85. Because a revolution in a Central American republic threatens to

topple its government, the President of the United States orders federal
troops to invade the republic. Congress subsequently passes a
resolution directing the President to recall the troops. When the
President refuses to do so, a proceeding is instituted in a United States
district court seeking an order compelling the President to comply with
the congressional directive. Which of the following would be the
President's most effective argument in opposition to that proceeding?

(A) United States district courts lack power over the President.

(B) The President is Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.

(C) The matter is a non-justiciable political question.

140

(D) The presidential order sending troops to the republic amounted to a

declaration of war.

86. A state statute makes it a felony for a person over the age of 21 years to
engage in sexual intercourse with a person under the age of 16 years.
The statute further provides that if persons who are unrelated to each
other by blood or marriage spend more than three hours in the same
hotel room together, they are conclusively presumed to have engaged in
sexual intercourse.

The defendant was charged with violating the statute by engaging in
sexual intercourse with a girl under the age of 16 years. The defendant
and the girl were not related to each other by blood or marriage. In its
instructions to the jury, the court said, “If you find that the defendant
and the girl spent more than three hours in the same hotel room, you
must find that they engaged in sexual intercourse.” The jury found the
defendant guilty.

If the defendant subsequently challenged the constitutionality of the
statute in an appropriate proceeding, the defendant's most effective
argument would be that the statute violated

(A) procedural due process requirements.

(B) substantive due process requirements.

(C) the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) the prohibition against bills of attainder.

87. The defendant, an alien convicted of murder in a state court, appeals
his conviction on the ground that aliens were systematically excluded
from serving on the jury.

A federal law prohibits aliens from serving on juries in state court
proceedings, but there is no state law creating such a prohibition. If the
defendant's appeal results in a reversal of his conviction, it will
probably be because the federal law

(A) violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(C) is invalid under the doctrine of separation of powers.

(D) is invalid under the Supremacy Clause of Article VI.

141

88. A state law provides that the names of prospective jurors in county
courts shall be drawn from the list of county residents holding state
driver's licenses. The plaintiff, a county resident, is a 22-year-old
black woman who does not hold a driver's license. She has never been
called as a prospective juror in the county court. In a federal court, the
plaintiff challenges the constitutional validity of the state law, claiming
that it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. In support of her challenge, the plaintiff offers proof that
black women between the ages of 18 and 23 make up a large portion of
the population of the county, but that no member of this group holds a
state driver's license or has ever been called as a prospective juror in
the county court.

Evidence that no black women between the ages of 18 and 23 who
reside in the county hold state driving licenses should be

(A) excluded, because a state law does not violate the Equal Protection

Clause on its face unless its purpose is to discriminate.

(B) excluded, because a state law does not violate the Equal Protection

Clause as applied unless it is applied with a discriminatory
purpose.

(C) admitted, because a law that has a discriminatory effect may violate

the Equal Protection Clause even if its purpose is not to
discriminate and it is not applied with a discriminatory purpose.

(D) admitted, because the exclusion of black women between the ages

of 18 and 23 years may be evidence that the law had a
discriminatory purpose or was applied with a discriminatory
purpose.

89. In an attempt to improve the position of United States companies in the
world pleasure-cruise market, Congress voted to sell five former
battleships to a cruise line for $1 each. If a competitor of the cruise
line challenges the constitutionality of the congressional action in an
appropriate proceeding, the sale will probably be found

(A) invalid as a denial of equal protection under the Fourteenth

Amendment.

(B) invalid as a bill of attainder.

(C) valid under the Property Clause of Article IV.

142

(D) valid under the general police powers of Congress.

90. Under authority granted by Congress, the United States Department of
Defense awarded a contract to a company for the production of
airborne bombsights. The contract called for all work to be performed
at the company factory located on the banks of Winding River in the
state. A clause of the contract prohibited the company from discharging
more than three units per day of a pollutant into Winding River as a
result of bombsight production.

While producing bombsights pursuant to its contract with the
Department of Defense, the company routinely discharged between
two and three units of the pollutant per day into Winding River.
Subsequently, the state prosecuted the company for violating a state
statute that prohibits any person or business entity from discharging
more than two units of the pollutant per day into any river or stream
located in the state. In defense, the company asserted that as a federal
contractor, it was immune to regulation by the state.

Which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if it were
the only one true, would most effectively support the state's argument?

(A) Winding River is located entirely within the state.

(B) Prohibiting the discharge of more than two units of the pollutant per
day into Winding River would not increase the cost of producing
the bombsights called for by the contract.

(C) Congress has not expressly exempted the company from compliance

with state water pollution statutes.

(D) Winding River is not a navigable river.

91. Congress authorizes the National Park Service to sell trees grown in
the national parks. A logging company who also sells trees complains
that the National Park Service is engaging in unfair competition
because it sells trees for half the price charged by commercial
growers. The logging company files suit in federal court. In response,
the National Park Service immediately raises tree prices to the level
charged by commercial growers. The National Park Service then
moves to dismiss the proceeding on the ground that it is moot.

The National Park Service's motion should be

143

(A) granted, because the issue has been rendered moot by the price

change.

(B) granted, because Congress has the power to dispose of property

belonging to the United States.

(C) dismissed, because the National Park Service might lower its

prices again in the future.

(D) dismissed, because the proceeding involves the application of

Article IV of the United States Constitution.

92. Congress passes the Securities and Exchange Court Act, establishing
the federal Securities and Exchange Court. Under the Act, the new
court is to hear civil actions for damages resulting from federal
securities and exchange law violations. The Act also provides that
there is no right of appeal from decisions of the Securities and
Exchange Court, and that the Court will cease to exist at the end of six
years unless Congress specifically authorizes it to continue for an
additional period. If a defendant against whom a judgment is rendered
by the new court challenges the constitutionality of the Securities and
Exchange Court Act, which of the following arguments would be most
likely to result in a finding that the Act is unconstitutional?

(A) The Securities and Exchange Court Act does not require that judges

be appointed to serve for life.

(B) The provision that there is no right of appeal violates the Due

Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(C) The United States Constitution does not provide for the

establishment of a federal court to hear prosecutions for federal
securities and exchange violations.

(D) The United States Constitution gives the Supreme Court the power

of judicial review over all inferior federal courts.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
93. After negotiation, the President of the United States and the President

of the Republic of Ruritania reached an executive agreement. Under the
terms of the agreement, profits earned by Ruritanian corporations in the
United States would not be subject to taxation in the United States, and
profits earned by United States corporations in Ruritania would not be
subject to taxation in Ruritania. The plaintiff is a Ruritanian
corporation operating in the state. A state statute imposes a tax on all
income earned within the state and designates the State Revenue

144

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Service as the agency that collects it.

The State Revenue Service demands that the plaintiff pay income tax
as required by state law. If the plaintiff challenges the state law, the
plaintiff's most effective argument would be that, as applied to the
plaintiff, the law is unconstitutional

(A) because no state may tax imports or exports without the consent of

Congress.

(B) under the Supremacy Clause.

(C) under the Necessary and Proper Clause.

(D) because the power to tax is the power to destroy.

94. Following an investigation by a congressional committee, an

impeachment proceeding was brought against a federal judge before
the United States Senate. The judge was not permitted to be
represented by counsel at the proceeding, although she asked for
representation and offered to pay for the services of her own attorney.
The Senate found that the judge engaged in improper acts and entered a
judgment of impeachment, removing the judge from office. The judge
subsequently asked a federal court to set aside the judgment on the
grounds that the denial of her request for representation by counsel at
the impeachment proceeding was a violation of her constitutional
rights. If the federal court refuses to grant the relief requested by the
judge, it will probably be

(A) because the Right to Counsel applies only to criminal prosecutions.

(B) under the doctrine of separation of powers.

(C) under the abstention doctrine.

(D) because a judgment of impeachment cannot extend further than to

removal and disqualification from office.

95. A city ordinance requires any person desiring to use public streets for
a parade to first obtain a parade permit from the Police Commissioner.
The ordinance sets forth procedures and requirements for obtaining
such a permit. The defendant challenged these procedures and
requirements in a federal court, and they were found to be
constitutional on their face. The defendant subsequently applied to the
Police Commissioner for a permit to conduct a street parade. Although
the defendant complied with all the requirements contained in the

145

ordinance, the Police Commissioner denied the application, saying,
“You look like a rebel to me.” Two months later, the defendant
conducted the parade and was arrested for parading without a permit in
violation of the ordinance described above. In defense, the defendant
asserted that the ordinance was unconstitutional as applied to him
because the Police Commissioner had arbitrarily and capriciously
denied his application for a parade permit. Which of the following
would be the most effective argument in response to the defendant's
assertion?

(A) There was sufficient time for the defendant to seek judicial review

of the Police Commissioner's denial of his application.

(B) The constitutionality of the statute is res judicata.

(C) The statute imposes a time, place, and manner regulation that is not

based on message content.

(D) The street is a traditional public forum.

96. Congress passes a law making it a crime in the District of Columbia to
operate any commercial motor vehicle that is not equipped with a
specified noise suppression device. If the constitutionality of the law is
challenged in an appropriate proceeding, the law should be declared

(A) valid as an exercise of the congressional police power over the

District of Columbia.

(B) valid as a reasonable exercise of the congressional power to

protect the environment.

(C) invalid under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.

(D) invalid under the Necessary and Proper Clause.

97. The state enacts a law imposing a one-cent tax on each use of any
video arcade machine located within the state. All such existing
machines are equipped with coin slots that accept only quarters. Since
it would be too expensive to convert the coin slots to accept additional
pennies, the practical effect of the new law will be to require the tax to
be paid by video arcade operators. All such machines are
manufactured outside the state. Which of the following would be most
likely to have standing to challenge the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) A child who regularly plays video arcade amusement machines.

146

(B) An association of video arcade operators.

(C) An out-of-state manufacturer of video arcade amusement machines.

(D) A corporation located within the state that is in the business of
converting the coin slots on video arcade amusement machines.

98. Congress passes a law imposing a tax on the owners of buildings

containing insulating materials made of asbestos. The law provides
that funds derived from the tax shall be used to help finance research
into the treatment of diseases caused by exposure to asbestos. The
constitutional validity of the statute is challenged in an appropriate
proceeding on the ground that one of the purposes of the tax is to
discourage the use of asbestos insulation in buildings. The statute
should be declared

(A) constitutional, as a valid exercise of the congressional taxing

power.

(B) constitutional under the general federal police power.

(C) unconstitutional, because Congress does not have the power to

regulate the use of building materials.

(D) unconstitutional, because the law was passed for a purpose other

than to raise revenue.

99. A state law prohibits the ownership of land within three miles of the

coast by any person who is not a citizen of the United States.

Which of the following is most likely to have standing to challenge the
constitutional validity of the state law?

(A) An association of persons owning land in a community located
within three miles of the coast that asserts that the statute will
prevent the cultural growth of the community.

(B) A citizen who seeks to sell his property to a non-citizen and asserts

that the statute will prevent the sale.

(C) A state taxpayer who asserts that the statute will affect the price of

real estate, thereby reducing tax revenue.

(D) A real estate broker who asserts that the statute will reduce the

number of prospective purchasers of realty.

100. The plaintiff was a clerk in the back office of the State Department of

147

Motor Vehicles where he had minimal contact with the public. He was
strictly a clerical staff member and had no policy-making role. The
plaintiff read on his computer that someone had just tried and failed to
assassinate the President. The plaintiff turned to a co-worker and said,
“Hopefully the next guy will be a better shot.” The Department of
Motor Vehicles then tried to fire the plaintiff, claiming the remark
reflected poorly on the Department. The plaintiff claimed that such a
firing would violate his First Amendment rights. Can the Department
of Motor Vehicles lawfully fire the plaintiff for making the remark?

(A) Yes, because the remark had to do with a matter of public concern

and the plaintiff was a public employee.

(B) Yes, because the plaintiff's remark advocated the assassination of

the President.

(C) No, because the plaintiff had no contact with the public and no

policy-making role.

(D) No, because the plaintiff's statement did not signal any significant

job unfitness.

101. Which of the following state laws is LEAST likely to be declared

unconstitutional?

(A) A law that imposes a tax on all owners of real property within the

state, including the federal government.

(B) A law that imposes a registration tax on all vehicles garaged within

the state, including those owned by the federal government.

(C) A law that imposes a tax on all building contractors operating
within the state, including those who work exclusively for the
federal government.

(D) A law that imposes a tax only on persons who lease grazing land

from the federal government.

102. A local church was well known for going door-to-door ringing

doorbells and handing out flyers condemning homosexuality. Because
they wanted to make sure people were home to listen to their message,
church members would arrive on people's doorsteps either early in the
morning or late at night. After months of ruined breakfasts, dinners, and
bedtimes, an overwhelming majority of city residents signed a petition
asking the city to outlaw the passing out of handbills door-to-door. A
second petition signed by people who worked at night and slept during

148

the day asked the city to ban doorbell ringing for political purposes. In
their petition, the nightworkers showed that their productivity was way
down from lack of sleep, which adversely affected the city economy.
In response to the petitions, the city passed an ordinance that stated
“All doorbell ringing for the purpose of handing out handbills is
strictly forbidden.” The church challenged the new ordinance, claiming
it was unconstitutional. Is the new ordinance constitutional?

(A) Yes, because the church can spread its message in other ways.

(B) Yes, because an overwhelming majority of city residents wanted to

outlaw the passing out of handbills door-to-door.

(C) Yes, because the city ordinance allowed nightworkers to sleep

during the day, which was a public benefit.

(D) No.

103. Because there were limited facilities in the state for disposing of toxic
wastes, the state enacted a law prohibiting the disposal within the state
of toxic wastes generated outside the state. A manufacturing company
located outside the state had previously contracted for the disposal of
toxic wastes at a disposal center located inside the state. If the
manufacturing company brings an appropriate proceeding challenging
the constitutionality of the state law, the argument LEAST likely to
result in a finding that the law is invalid is that it violates the

(A) Obligations of Contracts Clause.

(B) Commerce Clause.

(C) Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

104. A disastrous earthquake in Mexico resulted in the loss of thousands of
lives and the destruction of millions of dollars' worth of property.
Following the disaster, the President of the United States issued an
executive order sending U.S. military troops into Mexico to assist in
the evacuation of earthquake victims and in general recovery efforts.
Congress was not in session at the time. If the constitutionality of the
presidential order is challenged, which of the following arguments is
most likely to result in a finding that the President's action was
constitutional?

(A) The order was a valid exercise of the President's emergency

149

powers.

(B) The order was required by the humanitarian obligations of the

President.

(C) The President is Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.

(D) The President has power over foreign affairs.

105. Congress passes a law that grants federal funds to states for the

purchase of equipment to be used in public hospitals for the treatment
of diseases caused by cigarette smoking. Paragraph 7 of the law
provides that “no state shall be eligible to receive such funds unless
said state shall have imposed a tax of seven cents on every package of
cigarettes sold in such state in addition to whatever cigarette tax is
already in existence at the time that this act takes effect.” From which
of the following does Congress derive the power to enact paragraph 7
of the law?

(A) The congressional taxing power.

(B) The congressional spending power.

(C) The general federal police power.

(D) The congressional power to regulate interstate commerce.

106. Because of extremely high unemployment in the state, the state requires
that state residents be given absolute preference over non-residents for
all jobs on the state oil pipeline. The requirement is

(A) valid, under the Contract Clause.

(B) valid, under the interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause.

(C) invalid, under the Contract Clause.

(D) invalid, under the interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause.

107. The Followers of the Holy Flame is a religious organization.

According to its religious philosophy, fire is symbolic of the presence
of the Creator in all living things. As part of their system of worship,
members of the Followers of the Holy Flame attend meetings once per
month at which all sit in a circle around a blazing campfire to sing
hymns and recite prayers. Usually, they attempt to conduct their
meetings on top of the highest mountain in the region, in the belief that
such a location is closest to Heaven. For the past several years, they
have conducted their monthly meetings on a mountain located in

150

Mountain Range National Park, a preserve owned and maintained
entirely by the federal government. This year, because of the danger of
wildfire, Congress passed a law prohibiting campfires anywhere
within Mountain Range National Park. An attorney representing the
Followers of the Holy Flame has commenced an appropriate
proceeding on behalf of that organization challenging the validity of the
law on the ground that it violates the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution by interfering with the free exercise of religion.

Which of the following would be the most effective argument in
support of the constitutionality of the law?

(A) The use of fire is not a traditional religious practice.

(B) In view of the danger of wildfire, the use of fire is not a reasonable

religious practice.

(C) The prohibition of fires within Mountain Range National Park does
not discriminate between religions and has a primarily secular
effect.

(D) The law is a valid exercise of the power granted to Congress under

the Property Clause of the Constitution.

108. After intense lobbying by an organization made up of professional

personal trainers, the state passed a law barring gyms from employing
any personal trainer who did not have a college degree in either
physical therapy or sports medicine. The legislature's stated intent
behind the law was to protect people from injury. A woman who had
been employed as a personal trainer for 15 years was fired from the
privately-owned gym she worked at because she did not have a
college degree. She filed suit to challenge the law, arguing the law
clearly disadvantaged people without the financial ability to attend
college.

Which statement is correct?

(A) The court will uphold the law because it involves issues of health

and safety.

(B) The court will uphold the law because it does not involve a suspect

classification.

(C) The court will hold the law invalid because a classification based
on financial ability is not substantially related to an important

151

government interest.

(D) The court will hold the law invalid because it regulates the

activities of privately owned gyms.

109. The state enacts the Continuing Professional Education Act, which
provides that all persons licensed by the state to practice any
profession other than medicine are required to complete 10 units per
year of state-approved continuing education studies as a condition for
renewal of their professional licenses.

An action is brought in a state court by an attorney in the state for an
injunction prohibiting enforcement of the Continuing Professional
Education Act and an order declaring it to be unconstitutional on the
ground that it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution. Which one of the
following additional facts or inferences, if it were true, would most
effectively support a finding that the statute is constitutional?

(A) Competency in law is based upon the knowledge of principles that

change more quickly than those upon which competency in
medicine is based.

(B) A license to practice law is a privilege rather than a right.

(C) The power to license professionals is reserved to the states by the

Tenth Amendment of the United States Constitution.

(D) The state bar association passed a resolution approving of the

requirements contained in the Continuing Professional Education
Act.

110. A federal statute directs payment of federal funds to states for use in
the improvement and expansion of state hospital facilities. The terms
of the statute provide that “No state shall award a contract for hospital
improvement or expansion financed in whole or in part by funds
received under this section unless said contract requires that the
contractor pay its employees a minimum wage of $10 per hour.”

A state contracted with a builder for the construction of a new wing on
the State Hospital after receiving funds for that purpose under the
federal statute. The contract did not require the builder to pay its
employees a minimum wage of $10 per hour.

152

Several employees of the builder who received less than $10 per hour
while working on the State Hospital expansion instituted an action for
damages against the state in a federal court, and the state moved to
dismiss their cause of action. Which of the following is the clearest
reason for dismissal of the suit?

(A) The state is immune from such an action under the Eleventh

Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(B) No federal question is involved.

(C) The state did not employ the plaintiffs.

(D) The plaintiffs voluntarily accepted the wage that the builder paid

them.

111. A state statute requires cable television stations to set aside one hour
of airtime per week to be made available without charge for the
broadcasting of spiritually uplifting programs produced by recognized
religious organizations. The statute further provides that airtime
thereby made available shall be equally divided among Jewish,
Roman Catholic, and Protestant organizations. A Buddhist organization
produced a spiritually uplifting program, but was advised by several
cable television stations that it could not be broadcast under the
statute. The organization has instituted a proceeding in federal court
challenging the constitutional validity of the state statute.

The state moved to dismiss the proceeding on the ground that the
organization lacked standing to challenge the constitutional validity of
the statute. Should the motion be granted?

(A) Yes, because an intellectual interest in the outcome of a

constitutional challenge is not a sufficient personal stake to confer
standing.

(B) No, because Buddhism is a recognized religion.

(C) No, because the organization produced a spiritually uplifting
television program that will not be broadcast because of the
statute's provisions.

(D) No, because the religious sensibilities of the organization are

offended by the statute.

112. A state constitution contains an equal protection clause identical in

language to the Equal Protection Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment

153

to the United States Constitution. The state legislature passed a law
empowering insurance companies within the state to charge different
rates for males and females where actuarial analysis revealed a
relationship between gender and increased risk. Shortly after its
passage, the plaintiff sued in the state court for a judgment declaring
that the statute violated the equal protection clause of the state
constitution. The trial court found the statute to be valid, and the
plaintiff appealed to the Court of Judicial Appeals, the highest court of
the state. The Court of Judicial Appeals affirmed the ruling of the
lower court.

After the decision by the state Court of Judicial Appeals, the owner of
an automobile registered in the state sued in a United States district
court for an injunction prohibiting the state Insurance Commissioner
from authorizing different rates for males and females on the ground
that the statute empowering him to do so violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
If the insurance commissioner moves to dismiss the proceeding, the
motion to dismiss should be

(A) granted, because adequate state grounds exist for the validity or

invalidity of the statute in question.

(B) granted, under the abstention doctrine.

(C) denied, because the United States district court is empowered to
determine the validity of a state statute under the United States
Constitution.

(D) granted, because the Eleventh Amendment to the United States

Constitution prevents a federal court from hearing claims against a
state brought by citizens of that state.

113. A woman who was not a citizen of the United States applied for

temporary employment with the state. She was rejected, however,
because the Civil Service Law of the state prohibits temporary state
employment of a person who is not a United States citizen. The woman
sued in a state court for an order directing the state Civil Service
Commission to reconsider her application, on the ground that the
section of the Civil Service Law that prohibited the temporary
employment of non-citizens was unconstitutional.

The woman asserted that the section in question was invalid because it

154

violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the United States Constitution. Which of the following would be her
most effective argument in support of that position?

(A) The right to earn a living is a fundamental interest.

(B) All state discrimination against aliens is invidious since alienage is

a suspect classification.

(C) The section has no rational basis and is not necessary to serve a

compelling state interest.

(D) An alien is not a “person” for purposes of the Equal Protection

Clause.

114. A city ordinance provides for the election of a mayor every four years.
The ordinance makes all persons living in the city for one year eligible
to vote in mayoral elections.

The City Elections Commissioner advised a voter, who is not a citizen
of the United States but has been living in the city for 10 months, that
he will not be permitted to vote in the mayoral election because he
fails to meet the one-year residency requirement of the city ordinance.
Is the one-year residency requirement imposed by the ordinance
constitutionally valid as applied to the voter?

(A) Yes, because a municipality has a compelling interest in assuring
that voters will be interested in and familiar with the issues.

(B) Yes, because aliens have no constitutional right to vote.

(C) No, because a state may not make durational residency a

prerequisite for eligibility to vote.

(D) No, because although a state may establish durational residency

requirements for eligibility to vote, a requirement of one year does
not serve a compelling state interest.

115. The federal Interstate Riverboat Act provides that the minimum wage
for persons employed on river boats engaged in interstate commerce
shall be $6.50 per hour. However, the state's Civil Service Code
provides that crew members of riverboats engaged in interstate
commerce are paid from $6 to $8 per hour depending on seniority.

Persons employed by the state as riverboat crew members at wages
less than $6.50 per hour assert a claim in state court for money

155

damages consisting of the difference between the wages they have
been receiving and $6.50 per hour as required under the federal
Interstate Riverboat Act. The court should find for

(A) the employees, because as to them, the state Civil Service code is

superseded by the federal Interstate Riverboat Act.

(B) the employees, because the federal government has the power to set

minimum wages to promote the general welfare.

(C) the state, because fixing the wages of state employees is a

traditional state function.

(D) the state, because the state is immune from wage regulations under

the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution.

116. The defendant purchased several pornographic videotapes by mail and
showed them to friends who attended a barbecue at his home. The
defendant was arrested and charged with presenting an obscene
performance in violation of state law.

The defendant pleaded not guilty and asserted in his defense that, as
applied, the state statute violated his rights under the United States
Constitution. Which of the following would be the defendant's most
effective argument in support of his position?

(A) The statute violates the defendant's rights to freedom of speech and
the press because the right to hear, see, or read is part of the
freedom of expression.

(B) Application of the statute to the defendant is unconstitutional

because it violates the filmmaker's rights to freedom of speech and
the press.

(C) The defendant's constitutional right of privacy was violated
because it includes his right to privately possess obscene
materials.

(D) The law that the defendant is charged with violating was intended
to punish the publishers rather than the purchasers of obscenity.

117. To enforce the Protected Shellfish Act, the federal government

contracts with private enforcement agencies. The state imposes a
Building Rental Tax of $10 per year on tenants occupying rented
commercial space within the state. A contractor employed by the
federal government rents space for the conduct of his business in a

156

federal office building located in the state at an annual rental of $1.

If the contractor is prosecuted in a state court for failing to pay the
state Building Rental Tax, which of the following would be the
contractor's most effective argument in defense against the
prosecution?

(A) The Building Rental Tax violates the Equal Protection Clause of the

United States Constitution.

(B) The state may not tax the landlord-tenant relationship with the

federal government.

(C) The contractor's tenancy is specifically authorized by the Protected

Shellfish Act.

(D) The contractor is a federal contractor.

118. A grocer was convicted of violating a food safety ordinance by a city

municipal court. State laws do not permit appeal from judgments of the
city municipal court. The grocer seeks direct review by the United
States Supreme Court. Does the United States Supreme Court have
jurisdiction to review the decision of the city municipal court?

(A) Yes, because by convicting the grocer, the city municipal court has,
in effect, declared the ordinance to be valid under the United States
Constitution.

(B) Yes, because state laws do not permit appeal from judgments of the

city municipal court.

(C) No, because state law does not specifically authorize appeal of city
municipal court judgments directly to the United States Supreme
Court.

(D) No, because under Article III of the United States Constitution, the
United States Supreme Court may only review decisions of federal
courts and of the highest state courts.

119. A state statute known as the Unlawful Assembly Law contains the

following provision:

It  shall  be  a  misdemeanor  for  any  group  of  three  or  more  persons  to
engage  in  a  public  demonstration  on  a  public  sidewalk  in  front  of  any
state  government  office  during  regular  business  hours  unless  said
demonstration  is  related  to  matters  under  consideration  by  officials

157

employed in said government office.

The defendant took part in a public demonstration that prevented those
with business inside a state government office building from entering.
The defendant is prosecuted for violating the Unlawful Assembly Law,
and he defends by asserting that the section violates the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution. The court should find
him

(A) not guilty, because the public sidewalk in front of a government

building is traditionally regarded as a public forum.

(B) not guilty, because the statute unlawfully regulates the subject

matter of demonstrations conducted outside government offices.

(C) guilty, because the state has a compelling interest in the orderly

conduct of governmental affairs.

(D) guilty, because the demonstration in which the defendant

participated kept persons with lawful business from entering
government offices to transact it.

120. The state legislature adopted a law allowing for the use of state funds
to advertise the availability of abortions to indigent women. The
plaintiff, a state taxpayer and the chairperson of an organization
dedicated to campaigning for the rights of unborn children, instituted a
proceeding in the federal district court for an injunction prohibiting
state officials from disbursing funds under the new law. Which of the
following is the best reason for the court to conclude that the plaintiff
has standing to challenge the statute?

(A) Any person has standing to challenge a statute on the ground that it

violates a First Amendment right.

(B) Unborn children are a discrete and insular class that cannot be

represented in any other way.

(C) The law involves a direct expenditure of state tax funds.

(D) The plaintiff is chairperson of a special-interest political group that
has a philosophical and moral interest in preventing enforcement of
the statute.

121. A youth organization with chapters and members in all 50 states

rejected a girl's application solely on the basis of her race, advising
her in writing that membership was open only to white children.

158

A federal statute makes it a crime for an organization with members in
more than one state to deny membership to any person on the basis of
that person's race.

The organization is prosecuted in a federal court for violation of the
federal statute. The organization asserts that the statute is invalid under
the United States Constitution. Which of the following would be the
prosecutor's most effective argument in supporting the constitutional
validity of the federal statute?

(A) The policy of the organization violates the spirit of the Commerce

Clause.

(B) The policy of the organization establishes a badge of servitude in

violation of the spirit of the Thirteenth Amendment.

(C) The United States Supreme Court has found racial discrimination to

violate the United States Constitution.

(D) Racial discrimination is inimical to the general welfare of the

citizens of the United States.

122. A student passed his state's licensing examination and petitioned the
state Board of Medical Licensing Examiners for a license to practice
medicine. Solely because of an arrest by the city police, the Board
refused to issue him a license. When the student was brought before a
judge for arraignment after the arrest, the court dismissed the charge
with the consent of the public prosecutor.

Because of the Board's refusal to license him, the student sued the
Board in state court and was unsuccessful. If the student sues the
Board in a federal court for an order directing the Board to license
him, the court should find for

(A) the Board, because a license to practice medicine is a privilege

rather than a right.

(B) the student, because the student first attempted to sue in a state court

and was unsuccessful.

(C) the student, because the Board's action was arbitrary and

capricious.

(D) the student, because the Board's decision deprives the student of

property without due process.

159

123. After examining the effects of diesel exhaust on the environment,
Congress enacts a statute requiring the owners of diesel-powered
trucks used in interstate commerce to pay a Diesel-Powered Vehicle
Use Tax of $800 per vehicle. A trucking company that operates more
than 1,000 trucks in interstate commerce refuses to pay the Diesel-
Powered Vehicle Use Tax and sues in a federal court for an injunction
prohibiting the enforcement of the tax statute.

Which of the following is the federal government's strongest argument
in opposition to the trucking company's claim that the Diesel-Powered
Vehicle Use Tax is invalid?

(A) The tax protects the general welfare by discouraging the use of

diesel-powered vehicles in interstate commerce.

(B) Protection of the environment is part of the federal police power.

(C) The tax is a valid exercise of the spending power since it enables
Congress to assure that the money that it gives states for the
construction of roads will be most efficiently spent.

(D) The trucking company lacks standing since it has not yet paid the

tax.

124. In 1999, the United States entered into a treaty with another country by

which each country agreed not to tax citizens of the other. Pursuant to
that treaty, Congress enacted the National Tax Immunity Act, which
exempts that country's nationals residing in the United States from the
obligation to pay income tax to the United States. Last week, the
President of the United States issued an executive order requiring the
Internal Revenue Service to begin collecting income tax from the
country's citizens residing in the United States.

If the constitutional validity of the presidential order is challenged by
a person with standing to do so, the court should find that the order is

(A) valid, since the nation must speak with one voice in matters of

foreign affairs.

(B) valid, since the President has broad discretionary powers in

matters of foreign affairs.

(C) invalid, since the President may not abrogate foreign treaties

without the advice and consent of the Senate.

160

(D) invalid, since the President lacks the power to suspend enforcement

of the National Tax Immunity Act.

125. A state statute provides that no person can be elected to state office
who is not a citizen of the United States. The constitutionality of the
statute is challenged in an appropriate action by the plaintiff.

The plaintiff's challenge was heard by the highest appellate court of
the state, and the court declared the statute to be unconstitutional on the
ground that it violated the equal protection clause of the state
constitution. If the state seeks review by the United States Supreme
Court, which of the following statements is most accurate?

(A) The United States Supreme Court can properly review the decision

by certiorari.

(B) The United States Supreme Court can properly review the decision

by appeal.

(C) The United States Supreme Court can properly review the decision

by certiorari or appeal.

(D) The United States Supreme Court cannot review the decision.

126. A coastal state has enacted the Ocean Fishing License Act, which

regulates the right to fish in coastal waters. Section 1 of the Act
provides that no person shall fish in the ocean from a vessel registered
in the state who has not obtained an ocean-fishing license from the
state Department of Fish and Game. Section 2 of the Act sets the fees
for ocean-fishing licenses at $10 per year for residents of the state and
$20 per year for nonresidents.

An action is brought in a federal court by a resident of the state for an
injunction to prohibit the state from enforcing Section 2 of the Ocean
Fishing License Act. Which of the following arguments would be
LEAST likely to lead to a finding that the provisions of that section
are invalid?

(A) The Act violates the Commerce Clause.

(B) The Act violates the Equal Protection Clause.

(C) The Act violates the Necessary and Proper Clause.

(D) Section 1 of the Act is constitutionally invalid.

161

127. The state enacts legislation providing that participation in certain

elections is open only to persons who are able to pass a simple test of
reading and writing in the English language.

The constitutionality of the statute has been challenged by a litigant
who objects to the literacy requirement. If that challenge is successful,
it will probably be because the requirement violates

(A) the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) the “race, color, or previous condition of servitude” clause of the

Fifteenth Amendment.

(C) freedom of the press under the First Amendment.

(D) the Twenty-Sixth Amendment (granting the right to vote to persons

18 years of age and above).

128. Congress passes the Schools Construction Act, providing for grants of

federal funds to states to help finance the construction of new school
buildings. A section of the Act provides that states that do not alter
their building codes to prohibit the use in school construction of
certain substances listed as carcinogenic (cancer-causing) are
ineligible for federal funds under the law. The state is the home of an
industry that produces one of the materials listed in the federal law as
carcinogenic. Its legislature has refused to alter the state building code
to conform to the requirements of the Schools Construction Act.

In defending the validity of the section, which of the following
arguments would be most effective?

(A) The section is a necessary and proper extension of the

congressional power to regulate education.

(B) The states surrendered their authority over school construction by

accepting federal funds for that purpose in the past.

(C) The federal government can regulate school construction without

limitation because the federal government is paying for some of the
construction costs.

(D) It was reasonable for Congress to believe that compliance with the

section will assure that the federal money spent on school
construction will result in greater benefit than harm to the general
public.

162

129. A law in the state requires any person doing business in that state to

obtain a business license from the state's Department of Commerce. A
recently enacted amendment to that statute prohibits convicted felons in
the state from doing business in that state and authorizes the state's
Department of Commerce to deny a business license to any such
person.

The plaintiff, a convicted felon who was released from a state prison
after completion of his sentence, applied for a business license after
the passage of the amendment described above. He brings an action in
a federal court to enjoin the state's Department of Commerce from
enforcing the amendment against him on the ground that it is
constitutionally invalid.

A federal court will probably

(A) dismiss the action, because no federal question is involved.

(B) dismiss the action, since the plaintiff is a resident of the state

against which the action is being brought.

(C) hear the action, since the plaintiff is a resident of the state against

which the action is being brought.

(D) hear the action, since the plaintiff has asserted that the statute is

constitutionally invalid.

130. A recently enacted state statute provides that no person shall be
granted a high school diploma without first passing a series of
examinations designed to test minimum competency in reading,
writing, mathematics, and United States history.

A religious high school in the state sues in a federal court to enjoin
enforcement of the statute. In support of its petition, the school asserts
that its students belong to a religion that opposes all secular education,
and therefore the statute violates their rights and those of the school
under the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution. Which of the following would be the most
effective argument in opposition to that claim?

(A) The school lacks standing to challenge the constitutionality of the

statute.

(B) Opposition to all secular education is not a reasonable religious

163

belief.

(C) The law is not primarily intended to interfere with a religious

belief.

(D) The state has a compelling interest in the competency of high

school graduates.

131. A city ordinance provides as follows:

Section 1—No person shall conduct a public speech or demonstration
in  the  city  without  first  obtaining  an  assembly  permit  from  the  city
mayor, who shall not issue such a permit if, in his or her opinion, the
speech  or  demonstration  is  likely  to  result  in  a  breach  of  the  public
peace.

Section  2—A  fee  of  $10  shall  accompany  every  application  for  an
assembly  permit,  unless  the  application  is  for  a  permit  to  conduct  a
political campaign rally, in which case no fee shall be required.

Section  3—The  provisions  of  this  ordinance  are  severable,  and  a
judicial declaration that one section hereof is unconstitutional shall not
affect the validity of any other section.

Which of the following is the LEAST likely reason for holding that
Section 2 of the ordinance is invalid?

(A) Section 2 violates the Necessary and Proper Clause of the United

States Constitution.

(B) Section 2 discriminates against speech on the basis of its content.

(C) Section 2 is vague and/or overbroad.

(D) Section 1 is vague and/or overbroad.

132. A state statute provides that every carrier transporting unrefined

petroleum over roads within the state is required to pay a state
highway use tax based upon a formula that combines the quantity
transported and the distance over which it is moved within the state.

The plaintiff is a producer of unrefined petroleum within the state and
operates a trucking company for the transportation of his product.

If the plaintiff challenges the constitutionality of the statute in an
appropriate proceeding, which of the following additional facts or

164

inferences, if it was the only one true, would be the most likely to
result in a finding that the statute is unconstitutional?

(A) More than 50 percent of the transportation of unrefined petroleum
over roads in the state is connected with interstate commerce.

(B) There is no federal statute concerning the right of a state to tax the

transportation of unrefined petroleum within that state.

(C) The state imposes no tax on the transportation of any other product

within the state.

(D) The other states bordering the state have indicated an intention to
impose similar taxes on transportation over their highways.

133. Congress passes the State Highway Subsidy Act, which makes

matching federal funds available to states for the construction of state
highways on condition that states receiving such funds prohibit trucks
longer than a specified size from operating on state highways. The
state has refused to amend its statutes to comply with the Act.

The State Highway Subsidy Act is most likely to be held constitutional

(A) as an exercise of the general police power of the federal

government.

(B) as an exercise of the spending power of Congress.

(C) under the Property Clause of Article IV of the United States

Constitution.

(D) under the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution.

134. A man applied for a job as a city clerk. He was later rejected based on
a state law that gave employment preference to graduates of state
colleges and universities. The man sued, arguing the law violated the
Equal Protection Clauses of both the United States and state
constitutions. The state court found the law valid under both
constitutions, and the state appellate court affirmed. The man appealed
to the highest court in the state, but his petition for certiorari was
denied. He now seeks judicial review from the United States Supreme
Court.

May the United States Supreme Court grant review?

(A) Yes, because the state court found the law was valid under the

165

United States Constitution.

(B) Yes, because the highest court in the state denied certiorari.

(C) No, because classification based on attendance at a college or

university is not a suspect classification.

(D) No, because there has been no determination on the merits by the

highest court in the state.

135. A federal police officer ordered pornographic films from the defendant

by sending a check to the address given in an advertisement. After the
officer received the films, the defendant was charged in a federal court
with violating a federal statute that prohibits sending obscene films
through the mail.

Which of the following may the court properly consider in determining
whether the films sold by the defendant are obscene?

(A) Expert testimony that the films have serious value as works of

erotic art.

(B) Expert testimony that activities in the films are likely to appeal to

the prurient interest of persons under the age of 18 years.

(C) Expert testimony that the films have serious value as art, and expert

testimony that the films are likely to appeal to the prurient interest
of persons under the age of 18 years.

(D) No expert testimony.

136. A state law sets the mandatory retirement age for public high school
teachers at 60 years for physical education teachers of either gender.

A 60-year-old public high school physical education teacher
challenges the law, asserting that it violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Which of the following
additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one true, would be
most likely to result in a finding that the statute is constitutional?

(A) The teacher is not as vigorous and healthy as he was at the age of

50 years.

(B) Physical education teachers must engage in strenuous physical

activities likely to be hazardous to the health of a person over the
age of 60 years.

166

(C) The state has the right to set the retirement age for teachers and

other state employees.

(D) State law provides that physical education teachers who reach the
age of 60 years must be given first preference in being hired for
other teaching positions for which they qualify.

137. The defendant, an alien convicted of murder in a state court, appeals

on the ground that aliens were systematically excluded from serving on
the jury.

A state law prohibits aliens from serving on juries in state court
proceedings, but there is no federal law creating such a prohibition. If
the defendant's appeal results in a reversal of his conviction, it will
probably be because

(A) a state law may not discriminate on the basis of alienage.

(B) the state law violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the

Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) the state law violates the prohibition against discrimination on the

basis of race, color, or previous condition of servitude contained in
the Fifteenth Amendment.

(D) the state law is invalid under the Supremacy Clause of Article VI.

138. A state law provides that police rescue divers must be males between
the ages of 25 and 30. In its preamble, the law justifies itself by noting
the physical strength and stamina necessary to be able to perform the
job, including swimming in flood waters, lifting heavy objects off the
bottom of lakes, and breaking open submerged cars. A 32-year-old
woman challenges the state law, claiming it violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Specifically, she
argues that the law discriminates against people based on sex and age.

Which of the following statements is correct?

(A) The woman's claim for sex discrimination should fail if the law is

necessary to achieve a compelling state interest.

(B) The woman's claim for age discrimination should fail if the law is

substantially related to an important government interest.

(C) The woman's claim for sex discrimination should fail if the law has

a rational basis.

167

(D) The woman's claim for age discrimination should fail if the law has

a rational basis.

139. The state commences an appropriate proceeding to challenge the

constitutionality of an executive agreement between the United States
and a foreign country. Under the agreement, neither country can tax the
other country's corporations. Which of the following additional facts
or inferences, if it was the only one true, would be most likely to result
in a finding that the executive agreement was unconstitutional?

(A) The executive agreement was self-executing.

(B) If the state does not collect taxes from the other country's

corporations doing business in the state, the tax burden imposed on
other state residents will be increased.

(C) No federal statute authorizes the President to make executive

agreements with the foreign country.

(D) Prior to the agreement, Congress enacted a statute prohibiting the

President from agreeing not to tax foreign corporations without the
advice and consent of the Senate.

140. A federal act prohibited federal executive-branch employees from

getting involved in “political management or . . . political campaigns.”
The plaintiffs, a group of federal civil servants, attacked the
constitutionality of the act. In their complaint, the plaintiffs stated that
they wanted to engage in prohibited political activities, although they
were not specific as to what they were planning to do. However, they
conceded that they had not yet engaged in such activities. The court
should find

(A) the act is constitutional because the plaintiffs are federal

employees.

(B) the act is unconstitutional because it violates the plaintiffs' freedom

of expression.

(C) the act is unconstitutional because it violates the plaintiffs' freedom

of association.

(D) the plaintiff's action should be dismissed.

141. The plaintiff, who was employed as fire chief by a municipality of the
state, was required to retire under a state statute that mandated the
retirement of all fire department personnel at the age of 55 years.

168

The plaintiff institutes a proceeding against the state in a federal
district court, seeking an order enjoining the enforcement of the state's
mandatory retirement law on the ground that it violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The plaintiff's
application for an injunction should be

(A) denied, because the proceeding is barred by the Eleventh

Amendment.

(B) denied, because the law has a rational basis.

(C) denied, because the law is substantially related to important

government interests.

(D) granted, because the statute discriminates against a suspect class.

142. A city council passed an ordinance prohibiting the sale in the city of
meat processed at a processing plant not certified by the City Health
Department.

A person with standing to do so sues in an appropriate federal court
for an order enjoining enforcement of the city ordinance on the ground
that it is invalid under the Commerce Clause of the United States
Constitution. Which of the following is the best argument in support of
granting the injunction?

(A) As applied, the ordinance interferes with interstate commerce.

(B) Regulation of the purity of food is not a matter of local concern.

(C) The concurrent power to regulate commerce does not apply to

municipalities.

(D) There are equally effective and less burdensome ways of regulating

the purity of food sold in the city.

143. Congress passes the Schools Construction Act, providing for grants of

federal funds to states to help finance the construction of new school
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
buildings. A section of the Act provides that states that do not alter
their building codes to prohibit the use in school construction of
certain substances listed as carcinogenic (cancer-causing) are
ineligible for federal funds under the law.

The section in question is probably

(A) constitutional, on the basis of the federal police power.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

169

(B) constitutional, on the basis of the spending power.

(C) constitutional, under both the federal police power and the

spending power.

(D) unconstitutional.

144. After severe flooding caused a deficit in the city's budget, the city

council imposed a new fee on users of city pools. In the past, the pools
had been free for all city residents. Under the new fee system, city
pool users could either buy a yearly membership for $500 or pay $5
per entry. The city pools were primarily used by low-income residents
who would likely be unable to afford the new fees.

Which group or person is most likely to have standing to challenge the
constitutionality of the new fee?

(A) A wealthy doctor who owns his own pool, but uses a city pool to

swim laps every day because it is closer to his office.

(B) A low-income family who does not use city pools, but fears the fee

will prevent them from using the pools in the future.

(C) An organization dedicated to promoting free access to city services

for low-income residents.

(D) An organization of city lifeguards that claims many of its members
will lose their jobs or have their hours cut if the new fee is not put
in place.

145. Traditionally, a park next to the local elementary school was used for

art fairs, concerts, political speeches, and other public functions. After
a political rally used posters and imagery that frightened several
children, the city passed an ordinance requiring all political speeches
to be moved to another city park one mile away. Non-political
functions were unaffected by the ordinance.

Which statement regarding the ordinance is most likely to be true?

(A) The ordinance is valid because it is a valid time, place, and manner

restriction.

(B) The ordinance is valid because the park is government property.

(C) The ordinance is valid if it is substantially related to an important

government interest.

170

(D) The ordinance is valid if it is narrowly tailored to achieve a

compelling governmental interest.

146. A state law provides that the names of prospective jurors in county
courts shall be drawn from the list of county residents holding state
driver's licenses. The plaintiff is a 22-year-old black woman who
does not hold a driver's license. She has never been called as a
prospective juror in a county court. In a federal court, the plaintiff
challenges the constitutional validity of the state law, claiming that it
violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In
support of her challenge, the plaintiff offers proof that no black woman
in the county between the ages of 18 and 23 holds a state driver's
license or has been called as a prospective juror.

If a motion is made to dismiss the plaintiff's claim on the ground that
she lacks standing, the motion should be

(A) granted, because the plaintiff does not hold a state driver's license.

(B) granted, because the plaintiff has never been called as a

prospective juror.

(C) denied, because being deprived of the opportunity to serve on a

jury is a concrete harm.

(D) denied, because the exclusion of black women between the ages of
18 and 23 could deprive the plaintiff of due process if she is ever a
litigant in a county court.

171

ANSWERS
____________________
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

172

ANSWERS TO 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW QUESTIONS

1.  C  The  “case  or  controversy”  requirement  of  the  United  States
Constitution  requires  a  person  attacking  the  constitutionality  of  a
statute in a federal court to satisfy the burden of showing some actual
or  immediately  threatened  concrete  personal  injury  that  would  be
prevented if his or her challenge were sustained. Since the student has
not  yet  been  licensed  to  practice  law,  the  Continuing  Professional
Education  Act  does  not  affect  him;  declaring  it  unconstitutional  will
not  protect  him  against  immediately  threatened  injury.  He  therefore
lacks standing to challenge it.

A challenge to the validity of a statute on the ground that it violates
the  United  States  Constitution  is  a  federal  question.  A  is  therefore
incorrect.  A  claim  is  said  to  present  a  non-justiciable  political
controversy  if  its  adjudication  would  unduly  interfere  with  the
exercise  of  powers  of  co-equal  branches  of  government  or  with
national policy. B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the
federal  courts  are  not  required  to  wait  until  the  state  courts  have
acted before determining the constitutionality of a state statute.

2. D Under the Supremacy Clause, an otherwise valid state statute may be
superseded  by  federal  legislation  to  the  extent  that  the  two  are
inconsistent. The contract to kill the wild pigs in the national park was
authorized  by  federal  statutes.  Since  the  Property  Clause  gives
Congress the power to control federal property, the federal statutes are
valid, and so the state law that prohibits the killing of the wild pigs is
superseded, at least as to killings within the national park.

The power to protect the environment is held by both the federal and
state governments, so states do have the power to declare a species to
be  endangered  and  to  enact  legislation  protecting  it.  A  is  therefore
incorrect. Since the state statute prohibits the killing of wild pigs only
within the state, and since there is no indication that anyone other than
the exterminator is interested in coming from outside the state to kill
them or that killing them is commerce, the statute probably does not
unduly  interfere  with  interstate  commerce.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.
The Obligation of Contracts Clause prevents the state from interfering
with rights acquired under existing contracts but does not prevent the
state from prohibiting activities that parties might otherwise contract

173

to perform. C is therefore incorrect.

3. B Basic to freedom of religion is the rule that a court may not inquire into

the truth or reasonableness of a particular religious belief.

A is incorrect because in free exercise cases, the state's pursuit of a
compelling  state  interest  would  certainly  be  sufficient  (though  not
necessary)  to  lead  to  the  upholding  of  the  statute.  In  Wisconsin  v.
Yoder,  406  U.S.  205  (1972),  the  United  States  Supreme  Court
examined the sincerity of a claimant's religious beliefs in determining
whether a state statute as applied violated the Free Exercise Clause.
In doing so, the court referred to the fact that the belief involved was
of longstanding tradition. C and D are therefore incorrect.

4.  A  Under  the  Commerce  Clause,  Congress  has  the  power  to  regulate
commerce among the states. The Necessary and Proper Clause permits
Congress to do whatever is reasonably necessary to the exercise of its
enumerated  powers.  It  has  been  held  that  if  in  the  aggregate  a
particular  industry  has  an  impact  on  interstate  commerce,  Congress
may regulate even those aspects of it that are completely intrastate.

B is incorrect because no provision of the United States Constitution
gives  Congress  the  power  to  legislate  for  the  general  welfare  (i.e.,
federal  police  power).  C  is  incorrect  because  the  congressional
power to regulate commerce is limited to interstate commerce, or at
least  to  trade  that  has  an  impact  on  interstate  commerce.  D  is  a
correct statement, but it would not furnish an argument in support of
the  constitutionality  of  the  statute  in  question  since  the  statute
regulates “every purchase of an automobile in the United States,” and
this may include those that are sold domestically and intrastate.

5. C  Under  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause,  Congress  has  the  power  to
make  laws  regulating  the  use  of  federal  money  disbursed  pursuant  to
the spending power. This may enable Congress to control functions that
are traditionally those of the state.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  An  intrastate  activity  may  be
controlled by Congress under the Commerce Clause if its impact on
interstate  commerce  justifies  regulation  to  protect  or  promote
interstate  commerce.  D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  fact  that
some of the materials used are traded in interstate commerce is not,
alone, sufficient to establish such an impact.

174

6. D The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV requires each state
to  treat  nonresidents  in  the  same  manner  as  it  treats  residents.  An
exception  has  been  made,  however,  for  a  law  that  makes  it  more
burdensome  for  nonresidents  than  for  residents  to  exploit  a  state's
natural resources for recreational purposes. See Baldwin v. Montana
Fish  and  Game,  436  U.S.  371  (1978)  (holding  that  charging
nonresidents  a  higher  fee  than  residents  for  hunting  licenses  was
consistent  with  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  Article  IV).
The  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment
protects  only  those  rights  that  persons  enjoy  as  citizens  of  the  United
States (e.g.,  the  right  to  travel  from  state  to  state,  to  vote  for  federal
officials, to sue in federal courts, etc.). Since there is no federal right
to  hunt,  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment does not apply.

7.  B  A  person  in  an  organization  that  advocates  illegal  conduct  can  be
punished or disqualified for a state benefit only when he or she is an
active member of it, knows that it advocates illegal conduct, and has
the specific intent to bring about the accomplishment of its illegal goal.
Although  the  student  was  an  active  member  of  the  organization  and
knew  that  it  advocated  illegal  conduct,  he  did  not  intend  for  it  to
succeed  in  accomplishing  its  illegal  goal.  He  therefore  cannot
constitutionally be punished for his membership in it.

C and D are therefore incorrect. A  is  incorrect  because  freedom  of
the press applies only to the communication of ideas, and not to the
conduct involved in acquiring the information to be communicated.

8.  B  A  state  law  that  discriminates  among  religions  violates  the
Establishment  Clause  unless  it  is  closely  fitted  to  furthering  a
compelling  governmental  interest.  It  is  unlikely  that  the  statute  in
question  would  satisfy  that  test,  but,  in  any  event,  the  argument
contained  in  B  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  support  the
challenge. B is therefore correct.

A  statute  does  not  violate  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  unless  it
interferes with a practice required by a religious belief. Since there
is  no  indication  that  the  religious  beliefs  of  the  American  Buddhist
League  require  the  broadcasting  of  their  program,  A  is  incorrect.
Although the statute's discrimination against cable television stations
might  violate  the  Equal  Protection  Clause,  C  is  incorrect  because
only  a  victim  of  that  discrimination  (i.e.,  a  cable  television  station)

175

would have standing to assert that challenge. D is incorrect for two
reasons: First, the power to regulate use of the airwaves is, to some
extent, shared by the federal and state governments, and second, the
Supremacy  Clause  makes  a  state  law  invalid  only  when  it  is
inconsistent with some valid federal statute affecting the same subject
matter. Since there is no indication that there is a federal statute that
differs from the state law in question, D cannot be the correct answer.

9.  C  Although  there  is  some  question  about  the  court's  ability  to
enforce orders directed at the President, it is clear that the court may
exercise  control  over  the  conduct  of  executive  officials  even  when
they are carrying out presidential orders.

B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Although  the  power  to  commit  troops  to
foreign  hostilities  without  consulting  Congress  is  one  of  the
emergency powers of the President, it may be limited in advance by
federal statutes. If the presidential order was, in fact, a violation of
the federal statute cited by the plaintiff, it may be held invalid. A is
therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  president  may
mobilize  troops  against  foreign  nations  in  the  protection  of  the
national interest without a declaration of war.

10. B By the process of “reverse incorporation,” the Due Process Clause of
the Fifth Amendment has been held to require equal protection from
the  federal  government  similar  to  what  the  Fourteenth  Amendment
requires  of  state  governments.  The  plaintiff  may  argue  that  since  the
statute  applies  only  to  employees  of  the  Census  Bureau  and  not  to
other  federal  employees  who  deal  with  the  public,  it  arbitrarily
discriminates against him.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prohibits  states
from  abridging  the  privileges  or  immunities  of  national  citizenship
but  does  not  prohibit  the  federal  government  from  doing  so,  and
because  the  right  to  wear  a  moustache  is  probably  not  protected  by
the Privileges and Immunities Clause because it is not fundamental. C
is  incorrect  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prohibits  invidious
discrimination  by  the  states,  but  not  by  the  federal  government.  The
Fifth  Amendment  prohibits  the  taking  of  private  property  for  public
use  without  just  compensation,  but  is  inapplicable  here  since  no
property has been taken from the plaintiff for a public purpose. D is
therefore incorrect.

176

11. D The decision of the state court was based solely on its determination
of whether the statute in question violated the state constitution. Since
the United States Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to interpret state
constitutions, it has no power to review the decision of the state court
interpreting its own constitution.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

12.  B  The  congressional  power  to  regulate  interstate  commerce  has  been
held to include the power to exclude whatever items Congress wants
to  exclude  from  commerce  between  the  states.  The  courts  do  not
usually  examine  congressional  motives 
the
constitutionality of such a statute.

in  determining 

A is incorrect because there is no federal police power. The “Cooley
Doctrine” provides that the commerce power, at least in part, is held
concurrently  by  the  state  and  federal  governments.  C  is  incorrect
because the “Cooley Doctrine” has nothing to do with the prohibition
against  cruelty 
to  animals.  Although  acts  of  Congress  are
presumptively constitutional, D is not an effective argument because
the presumption of constitutionality is a rebuttable one.

13. C Under the Supremacy Clause, an otherwise valid state law is invalid
if  it  is  inconsistent  with  a  federal  law  covering  the  same  subject
matter.  Since  the  immigration  laws  and  treaties  of  the  United  States
might  contain  provisions  that  are  inconsistent  with  a  state  law
restricting  the  employment  of  aliens,  they  would  be  relevant  to
determining its validity under the Supremacy Clause.

If  the  state  law  is  invalid  under  the  Supremacy  Clause,  it  is
unconstitutional no matter what the unemployment rate in the state is
and  no  matter  how  many  noncitizens  reside  there.  A  and  D  are
therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because federal civil service laws
regulate employment by the federal government and, therefore, do not
cover the same subject matter as the state's Civil Service Law.

14. B Article III of the United States Constitution gives the Supreme Court
appellate jurisdiction over all controversies arising under the laws of
the  United  States,  and  authorizes  Congress  to  determine  the  ways  in
which that jurisdiction shall be exercised. Since the Truth in Selling
Act is a federal law, the court has jurisdiction to hear appeals from
decisions construing it, and Congress may authorize appeals directly
from lower state courts.

177

The  power  to  regulate  interstate  commerce  may  empower  Congress
to authorize a statute requiring disclosures in interstate transactions,
but A is incorrect because the power to regulate interstate commerce
is separate from and unrelated to the power to regulate the exercise of
appellate jurisdiction by the Supreme Court. C  is  incorrect  because
Article III gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction over cases involving
federal  laws,  and  empowers  Congress  to  determine  how  that
jurisdiction  should  be  exercised.  Although  a  state  has  the  right  to
review the decisions of its own courts, the United States Constitution
gives  the  Supreme  Court  the  power  to  review  decisions  relating  to
federal laws. Its exercise of that power is thus constitutionally valid,
and not an infringement on the sovereignty of the states. D is therefore
incorrect.

15.  D  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  upheld  such  a  program  against
Establishment  Clause  attack  in  Mitchell  v.  Helms,  530  U.S.  793
(2000). A majority of the Court believed that the fact that the program
treated religious and non-religious schools identically was enough to
avoid  Establishment  Clause  problems,  so  long  as  there  was  no
evidence that the equipment was actually being diverted for religious
purposes.

A  is  incorrect  for  the  same  reason  that  D  is  correct.  B  is  incorrect
because  the  power  to  spend  for  the  general  welfare  includes  the
power  to  subsidize  education.  Since  the  use  of  tax  money  for
religious  schools  is  likely  to  reduce  the  amount  of  tax  money
available for use by non-religious schools, C is incorrect because the
petitioners have the necessary standing.

16. B Since the right to vote has been held to be a fundamental interest, state
interference with the right to vote is unconstitutional unless it can be
shown  to  serve  a  compelling  state  interest.  Since  the  state  has  a
compelling  interest  in  the  accuracy  and  facility  of  ballot  counts,  the
refusal  to  count  sticker  votes  will  be  valid  if  the  City  Elections
Commissioner  shows  that  it  serves  that  interest.  Although  it  is  not
certain that this argument will be successful, it is the only one listed
that could possibly support the Commissioner's position.

The  existence  of  certain  relationships  has  been  held  to  justify  the
assertion  by  one  person  of  another's  constitutional  rights.  A  is
incorrect  since  the  relationship  between  candidate  and  voter
probably  is  one  of  these,  and  because,  as  a  voter,  the  lawyer  is

178

asserting her own rights. A federal statute prohibits the use of literacy
tests in determining eligibility to vote. Even without it, however, C is
incorrect  because  it  would  not  eliminate  illiterate  voters  until  after
they  had  cast  what  they  believed  to  be  a  vote.  D  is  a  non  sequitur
since  familiarity  with  issues  and  candidates  does  not  logically
require the ability to write a person's name on a ballot, and because
most  traditional  voting  methods  (i.e.,  marking  an  “X”  or  flipping  a
lever) require no more literacy than the sticker vote method.

17.  B  The  Eleventh  Amendment  provision  that  the  judicial  power  of  the
federal  government  shall  not  be  extended  to  suits  brought  against  a
state by residents of another state has been held to prohibit the federal
courts from entertaining suits for money damages against a state by its
residents, unless authorized by valid federal statute. For this reason,
the  federal  court  action  against  the  state  by  its  employees  must  be
dismissed.

The  doctrine  of  abstention  prohibits  a  federal  court  from  deciding
constitutional  issues  that  are  premised  upon  unsettled  questions  of
state law upon which the determination of the action would depend.
Since no such unsettled question exists, A is incorrect. Tourism is not
a traditional state function, and since under the Commerce Clause the
federal  government  has  the  power  to  regulate  interstate  commerce,
the  Supremacy  Clause  makes  the  federal  Interstate  Riverboat  Act
supersede  the  state  Civil  Service  Code.  C  and  D  are  incorrect,
however,  because  under  the  Eleventh  Amendment,  the  federal  court
lacks jurisdiction to hear an action for damages against a state.

18. A Although a party challenging the validity of a statute is not ordinarily
permitted  to  assert  the  constitutional  rights  of  third  persons,  the
distributor may do so for two reasons: First, if the statute as applied
violated the defendant's constitutional rights, the defendant could not
be  guilty  of  violating  it,  and  the  distributor  could  not  be  called  an
accessory  to  the  commission  of  a  crime,  and  second,  vendors  have
been  held  to  have  standing  to  assert  the  constitutional  rights  of  their
customers.

B is incorrect because a person challenging the validity of any statute
on  any  constitutional  ground  must  have  standing  to  do  so.  C  is
incorrect  because  although  the  defendant  can  waive  his  own
constitutional  rights,  he  cannot  waive  those  of  the  distributor.  If  the
statute's application to the defendant was unconstitutional, convicting

179

the  distributor  of  being  an  accessory  to  it  would  violate  the
distributor's  constitutional  rights.  D  is  incorrect  because  it  is
overbroad.  Several  exceptions  to  this  general  rule  exist,  including
one  that  permits  a  vendor  to  assert  the  constitutional  rights  of  its
customers.

19.  D  Although  the  doctrine  of  state  immunity  prevents  Congress  from
exercising  its  commerce  or  taxing  power  in  a  way  that  substantially
interferes  with  traditional  state  functions,  there  is  no  reason  why  a
state should not have to carry its share of the burdens of government
by paying taxes for benefits that it receives. Since the federal tax in
question  is  applied  to  all  who  derive  benefit  from  federal  aviation
services, and since it does not interfere with a traditional function of
the state, it is valid.

The  power  to  tax  may  be  the  power  to  destroy,  and  for  this  reason
states  may  not  freely  tax  the  federal  government.  A  is  incorrect,
however,  because  the  federal  government  is  not  under  the  same
restraint  in  taxing  the  states.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  doctrine  of
state immunity does not protect the state against paying its fair share
for the federal services that it receives. C is a fabrication; there is no
“doctrine of state subordination.”

20.  B  For  a  law  to  trigger  strict  or  intermediate  scrutiny,  it  must  have  a
discriminatory  intent.  A  mere  discriminatory  effect  is  not  enough  to
trigger  the  higher  levels  of  scrutiny  under  the  Equal  Protection
Clause.  There  is  no  indication  in  the  facts  that  the  law  is  meant  to
have a discriminatory intent, nor is there any indication or mention of
race in the law. In fact, it also bans admissions officers from taking
into  account  many  other  factors,  such  as  gender,  economic
disadvantage,  and  sports  and  club  membership.  Therefore,  C  and  D
are incorrect.

A is incorrect because there is no rule allowing an institution to do
whatever it wants in the name of education.

21.  D  Under  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause,  Congress  has  the  right  to
make  whatever  laws  are  necessary  and  proper  in  implementing  its
other powers. This right has been held to include the power to grant
immunity from state taxation.

Although the federal government is itself immune from state taxation,
the immunity is not derivative. For this reason, federal employees and

180

contractors  are  not  automatically  immune  from  state  taxation,  even
though such taxation may indirectly burden the federal government. A
and B are therefore incorrect. C is an incorrect statement of law since
it  has  been  held  that  a  nondiscriminatory  state  income  tax  may  be
imposed on state residents who derive their income from out-of-state
activities.

22. A  A  controversy  is  not  “ripe”  for  decision  unless  the  issues  are  fully
developed  and  clearly  defined,  and  not  merely  speculative,
conjectural,  or  premature.  Usually,  this  requires  a  showing  that
objective harm will occur if the issues are not decided. Mere general
allegations of a possible subjective “chill” are not sufficient to satisfy
this requirement.

A case is “moot” when no unresolved contested questions essential to
the  effective  disposition  of  the  particular  controversy  remain  for
court  decision.  B  is  incorrect  because  all  the  issues  raised  by  the
action  are  unresolved.  C 
the  Eleventh
Amendment  does  not  prevent  lawsuits  to  enjoin  state  officials  from
enforcing  laws  claimed  to  be  invalid.  A  question  is  political  if  its
resolution  would  unduly  interfere  with  the  operation  of  a  co-equal
branch  of  the  federal  government  or  with  national  policy.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

incorrect  because 

is 

23. C Since the United States Constitution is the supreme law of the land,
every court must determine whether the laws that it enforces violate
the Constitution either by their terms or by the way in which they are
applied. This necessarily involves interpretation of the Constitution.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the
municipal  court  determines  who  has  standing  to  appear  or  make
particular  arguments  before  it,  and  second,  even  if  the  municipal
court's  rules  regarding  standing  were  identical  to  the  federal  rules,
the  grocer  would  have  standing  because  the  possibility  of  his
conviction is sufficient to give him a personal stake in the outcome of
the constitutional argument. D is incorrect because every court has the
power to interpret the Constitution.

24.  B  Article  I,  Section  8  the  power  to  spend  for  public  purposes  that
provide  for  “the  common  defense  and  general  welfare,”  so  long  as
that  spending  does  not  adversely  affect  other  constitutional  rights.
Here,  providing  funding  for  flood-control  projects  is  clearly

181

beneficial for the general welfare, and there is no indication that any
other constitutional right is involved.

A  is  incorrect  because,  although  Congress's  actions  might  affect
interstate  commerce  (for  example,  the  rivers  and  streams  might  be
used  for  interstate  travel  and  commerce),  the  Commerce  Clause
generally  deals  with  federal  laws  that  directly  regulate  state  action.
Here, Congress is merely providing money, which makes B a better
answer. C is incorrect because there is no requirement that a federal
program  like  this  be  limited  to  federal  property.  D  is  incorrect
because  there  is  no  requirement  that  a  federal  program  like  this  be
limited to navigable waters.

25. D The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment provides
that “no state shall . . . deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.” Actions of a county or other political
subdivision  of  a  state  are  regarded  as  state  actions.  The  fact  that
plaintiff's  application  was  rejected  solely  because  of  her  sex  would
probably  make  that  rejection  invidious,  and  a  violation  of  her
Fourteenth Amendment rights.

In A, the disparity between the pass rates of black persons and white
persons  might  be  evidence  that  a  law  is  being  applied  in  a
discriminatory manner, but it does not establish it conclusively. A is
therefore  incorrect.  Although  discrimination  based  solely  on  ethnic
background  may  violate  the  Equal  Protection  Clause,  B  is  incorrect
because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prohibits  state  action  only,  and
the discrimination in B was practiced by a privately owned hospital.
C  is  incorrect  for  the  same  reason  since  the  discrimination  was
practiced by a federal agency rather than a state one.

26. B Under the Cooley Doctrine, the state's power to regulate commerce is
held concurrently with the federal government's commerce power. If
an activity is one largely of local concern, the state may regulate it in
the  absence  of  a  federal  statute  indicating  congressional  intention  to
preempt  the  field.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  activity  is  one  requiring
national  uniformity,  the  state  may  not  regulate  it  in  the  absence  of  a
federal  statute  specifically  authorizing  regulation  by  the  states.  For
these reasons, the absence of a federal statute would establish that the
state  regulation  is  constitutional  only  if  the  activity  regulated  is  one
largely of local concern. Although it is not certain that the argument in
B  would  succeed,  it  is  the  only  one  that  could  possibly  support  the

182

constitutionality of the statute.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  absence  of  a  federal  statute  might  mean
that  Congress  regards  the  matter  of  rest  breaks  for  truck  drivers  as
one  requiring  national  uniformity  but  does  not  consider  a  statute
requiring  such  breaks  to  be  a  good  idea.  Although  the  statute  is
enforceable only within the state, it clearly has an effect on interstate
commerce.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  a  correct  statement  if  the
activity involved is not one requiring national uniformity. If, however,
it  does  require  national  uniformity,  the  states  are  not  free  to  impose
restrictions upon it unless authorized to do so by Congress.

27.  D  A  statute  is  void  for  overbreadth  if  it  punishes  expression  that  is
constitutionally  protected  along  with  expression  that  can  validly  be
punished.  Although  certain  types  of  offensive  expression  (including,
perhaps,  the  defendant's)  may  be  prohibited  by  statute,  a  law  that
prohibits  “offensive”  conduct  is  so  vague  that  it  may  also  end  up
punishing  constitutionally  protected  speech.  Such  a  law  is  therefore
overbroad.

A, B,  and  C  are  incorrect  because  a  person  whose  conduct  can  be
constitutionally  punished  under  a  statute  has  standing  to  assert  the
rights  of  persons  whose  conduct  is  unconstitutionally  prohibited  by
the statute. Thus, although it might have been constitutional to punish
the defendant's conduct, the law is constitutionally invalid because of
other  conduct  that  it  might  reach,  and  if  invalid,  cannot  be  enforced
even against the defendant.

28.  B  Although  the  Constitution  requires  the  advice  and  consent  of  the
Senate  for  ambassadorial  appointments,  the  United  States  Supreme
Court has held that the President may dismiss an ambassador at will
and without cause.

A  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  Whether  the  removal  of  an
ambassador constitutes a withdrawal of diplomatic relations depends
on  the  reason  for  the  ambassador's  removal.  D  is  incorrect  for  this
reason,  and  because  the  President  has  the  power  to  withdraw
diplomatic relations with a foreign government.

29. C  The  “case  or  controversy”  requirement  of  Article  III  of  the  United
States  Constitution  prevents  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  from
exercising jurisdiction in anything but a concrete dispute in which the
Court may effectively remedy damage to a legal right by rendering a

183

judicial  decree.  Since  an  advisory  opinion  does  not  determine  the
rights of any person, the opinion of the state Court of Errors is not a
case  or  controversy,  and  the  Supreme  Court  has  no  jurisdiction  to
review it.

A is therefore incorrect. If a state court's decision that a state law is
invalid rests on an adequate state ground, it is not subject to review
by the Supreme Court because such review would be futile. If a state
court's  decision  in  a  matter  that  qualified  as  a  case  or  controversy
were based on its interpretation of the federal Constitution, the United
States  Supreme  Court  could  review  it.  B  is  incorrect,  however,
because the advisory opinion of the Court of Errors was not a case or
controversy.  Where  a  constitutional  issue  is  involved,  the  Supreme
Court may review the decision of a state's highest court, even though
that decision was based on an exercise of original jurisdiction. D is
therefore incorrect.

30. C  The  right  to  marry  is  a  fundamental  liberty  interest,  and  the  United
States Supreme Court has held that the Due Process Clause's right of
privacy protects the integrity of the family. People who are related by
blood  or  marriage  have  a  right  to  live  together  in  a  common
household.  Here,  the  only  way  for  the  family  to  comply  with  the
ordinance  is  to  have  at  least  one  of  the  children  move  out.
Consequently, the ordinance clearly impinges on the family's right of
privacy, and is thus unconstitutional.

A is incorrect because the fact that some of the children are over 18
and may be considered legally adults does not change the fact that the
family's right to live together is being impinged by the ordinance. B is
incorrect  because  the  ordinance's  apparent  intention  of  protecting
health and welfare doesn't change the fact it impinges the integrity of
the family. D  is  incorrect  because  limiting  the  law's  effects  to  state
college students doesn't necessarily keep it from violating a family's
right to live together.

31. B The emergency powers of the President have been held to include the
power  to  commit  United  States  military  personnel  to  foreign
hostilities in satisfaction of existing treaty obligations.

A is incorrect because Article I of the Constitution grants the power
to declare war to Congress rather than the President. C  is  incorrect
because the validity of the treaty is not in issue. As Commander-in-

184

Chief,  the  President  is  the  ultimate  maker  of  military  policy.  D  is
incorrect,  however,  because  the  decision  to  send  troops  to  the
republic is a matter not of military policy, but of foreign policy.

32. D  Constitutional  guarantees  of  due  process  and  freedom  of  expression
protect only against government action. Since the college is privately
owned,  it  is  not  bound  to  give  the  student  due  process  or  to  avoid
interfering with his freedom of expression. Common law and contract
rights are thus the only ones that he may hope to enforce against the
university.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

33. C To have standing to litigate the constitutionality of a statute, a plaintiff
must show that he or she has a personal stake in the action. Federal
taxpayers do not usually have standing to challenge an expenditure of
federal money because their interest in the taxes that they pay into the
federal  treasury  is  too  remote  to  be  regarded  as  substantial.  If  the
federal  taxpayer  is  suing  to  recover  taxes  paid  under  protest,
however, he or she has the right to urge any appropriate objections to
the  validity  of  the  tax  —  including  a  constitutional  challenge  to  the
law  that  imposed  the  tax  or  directed  disbursement  of  tax  money
collected.

A is incorrect because a moral or intellectual interest in the outcome
of litigation is not sufficient to satisfy the requirement of a personal
stake in the action. B is incorrect because a state does not ordinarily
have  standing  to  bring  an  action  as  a  representative  of  its  citizens
since they are said to be protected by their political representation in
Congress.  State  taxpayers  have  standing  to  challenge  a  direct  and
substantial  expenditure  of  their  tax  money.  But  where  the  activity
involved has only a tenuous relationship to an expenditure of funds, it
is  necessary  for  the  plaintiff  to  show  a  direct  injury  to  his  or  her
financial interest. D is incorrect because no such injury is shown to
exist.

34. B The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment prohibits arbitrary
discrimination by the federal government. Since the law requires the
payment of a tax by diesel-powered vehicle users that is not required
from non-diesel-powered vehicle users, it is possible to argue that the
law  discriminates  against  the  operators  of  diesel  vehicles.  The
argument  is  very  likely  to  fail  since  the  prohibition  falls  before  an

185

overriding national interest, but it is the only one listed that has any
chance of success whatsoever.

A is incorrect because the fact that the tax has a regulatory effect is
not,  alone,  enough  to  make  it  invalid.  The  argument  that  a  tax  is  so
burdensome as to constitute an unconstitutional taking has been held
to be a political question for which appropriate judicial standards of
judgment are not available. C is therefore incorrect. The use of a tax
to  discourage  certain  activities  has  been  upheld  if  it  is  imposed  to
accomplish  an  objective  within  the  scope  of  some  other  delegated
power. D is incorrect because the tax is probably justified under the
Commerce Clause.

35. C Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution grants Congress
the  exclusive  right  to  “coin  money  and  regulate  the  value  thereof.”
Since  the  state  statute  requires  certain  businesses  to  accept  casino
chips  in  payment  for  merchandise  and  services,  in  effect  it  makes
those chips legal tender (i.e., money), thus exercising a function that
exclusively belongs to Congress.

the  requirement  of  due  process  applies  only 

Ordinarily, 
to
governmental  deprivations.  A  is  incorrect  for  this  reason,  and
because  the  Casino  Chip  Law  provides  a  method  for  the  persons
affected to be paid, and even to receive a profit (of one-third) for the
handling  of  the  chips.  According  to  the  Cooley  Doctrine,  the
commerce  power  is  held  concurrently  by  the  state  and  federal
governments. B  is  incorrect  because  under  the  Cooley  Doctrine,  the
fact that state law affects interstate commerce is not, alone, sufficient
to  make  it  invalid.  Since  the  Casino  Chips  Law  requires  licensed
casinos  to  redeem  the  chips  at  face  value,  the  “taking”  (if  there  is
one)  is  not  without  compensation.  Although  the  restaurant  owner
might argue that the compensation is not “just,” the argument in D is
not nearly as strong as the one raised by C, to which there is really no
possible response.

36.  B  Generally,  federal  taxpayers  do  not  have  standing  to  challenge  the
spending  of  tax  dollars  because  their  interest  is  too  attenuated.
However,  a  taxpayer  can  challenge  a  spending  measure  if  he  or  she
can  show  the  challenged  measure  was  enacted  under  Congress's
taxing  and  spending  power  and  exceeds  the  specific  limitations  on
this  power.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  stated  that  the
Establishment  Clause  is  such  a  limit  on  the  power.  Consequently,

186

since the challenge concerns the Establishment Clause and its limit on
congressional spending, the taxpayer bringing the challenge will have
standing.

A  is  incorrect  because  it  is  too  broad.  A  federal  taxpayer  does  not
have standing to challenge any and all spending authorizations for any
and all reasons. C  is  incorrect  because  the  issue  regarding  how  the
money  will  be  spent  does  not  affect  the  taxpayer's  standing.  D  is
incorrect because the term “nexus” usually applies to state taxation of
interstate commerce, which is not the situation here.

37. C  Standing  to  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  a  law  or  an  executive
order  requires  a  “personal  stake”  in  the  outcome.  This  requires  that
the plaintiff be threatened with immediate damage to his or her rights
that can be avoided if the court grants the requested relief. A citizen
of the republic living in the United States was immune from taxation
until the presidential order was issued, and under that order he will
be required to pay taxes. Sufficient personal stake thus exists.

A  is  incorrect  because  an  intellectual  or  political  interest  is  not
sufficient to give a plaintiff the personal stake required. B is incorrect
because a United States citizen was not immune from taxation before
the  order  and  therefore  has  no  personal  stake  in  having  it  declared
unconstitutional. D is incorrect because foreign governments have no
rights under the United States Constitution and therefore have no right
to seek its enforcement.

38.  D  A  federal  tax  on  state  activities  is  valid  so  long  as  it  is  non-
discriminatory and does not seriously interfere with the functioning of
state  government  as  a  sovereign  entity.  If  the  activity  on  which  a
federal tax is imposed is not one unique to the state government, the
tax  probably  does  not  interfere  with  the  functioning  of  state
government  as  a  sovereign  entity.  Since  the  building  is  rented  to
private  tenants  much  as  any  other  commercial  office  building,  the
state's  activity  in  operating  it  is  not  one  that  is  unique  to  state
government.

A  is  incorrect  because  Congress's  power  to  tax  is  subject  to  all
constitutional limitations. Although protection of the environment is a
legitimate  reason  for  imposing  a  tax,  a  state  will  be  immune  from
such  a  tax  if  it  interferes  with  the  functioning  of  the  state  as  a
sovereign entity. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect for the same

187

reason.

39. D  Although  the  state  may  interfere  with  commercial  speech  to  serve  a
substantial  governmental  interest,  it  must  not  do  so  in  a  way  that  is
unnecessarily  restrictive.  Thus,  even  though  the  state  may  have  a
substantial  interest  in  protecting  the  public  against  tooth  decay,  the
the  advertising  of  chewing  gum  would  be
law  prohibiting 
constitutionally 
less  restrictive  ways  of
there  are 
accomplishing  the  same  objective  (e.g.,  by  requiring  a  warning).
Although  it  is  not  certain  that  the  argument  in  D  would  result  in  a
finding  that  the  law  is  invalid,  it  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could
possibly support such a finding.

invalid 

if 

A is an incorrect statement of law since freedom of expression is not
absolute and may be interfered with to serve a substantial government
interest.  The  mere  fact  that  a  state  law  will  have  an  effect  on
interstate commerce is not enough to make that law invalid unless it
imposes  an  unreasonable  burden  on  interstate  commerce.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  Although  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  is
wary of laws that impose prior restraint on publication, it is far less
concerned  when  those  laws  affect  commercial  speech  only.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  speech  involved  is  commercial,  and  the  fact
that the law imposes a prior restraint is therefore not sufficient alone
to render it constitutionally invalid.

40. C Congress has the power to make laws regulating conduct on federal
property and in the District of Columbia, virtually without limitation.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  police  powers  of  the  states  include  the
power to regulate education. Although states must do so in a way that
does  not  deny  equal  protection  to  persons  within  their  jurisdiction,
there  is  no  constitutional  requirement  that  each  state  do  so  in  an
identical way. Some highly imaginative argument might lead a court
to conclude that if B were true, the statute would be valid under the
war and national defense powers of Congress, or that if D were true,
the  statute  would  be  valid  under  the  Commerce  Clause.  No  such
stretch of the imagination is necessary in C, however, so B and D are
incorrect.

41. D A question is moot when the issues that it raises have ceased to exist.
Although  the  defendant  has  been  released  from  physical  custody,
violations  of  the  conditions  of  his  parole  would  result  in  his  re-

188

incarceration  for  the  remainder  of  his  sentence.  Since  the  warden
ordered his confinement to be solitary for the rest of his sentence, a
return  to  prison  would  subject  him  to  enforcement  of  the  warden's
order. The issues raised by his petition have therefore not ceased to
exist.

A is incorrect because although the defendant is no longer in prison,
he was paroled on a conditional basis and could be returned to prison
for  the  remainder  of  his  sentence.  B  is  incorrect  because  there  are
many reasons why parole might be appropriate even if the defendant's
rights were not violated. Sometimes the nature of the judicial process
makes it impossible for the court to reach a decision in a particular
kind  of  claim  before  it  becomes  moot  (e.g.,  challenges  to  a  law
prohibiting abortion could never reach the Supreme Court before the
birth of a petitioner's baby). In such cases, if the claim is one that is
capable of being repeated but likely to evade judicial review, it will
not be moot even though the petitioner is unable to show that specific
damage will result from a refusal to hear it. The defendant's petition
is  not  such  a  case,  however,  because  there  is  no  indication  that  the
warden's order was part of a policy that would lead to repetition of
claims like the defendant's, and, even if it were, there is no indication
that subsequent claims by other prisoners are likely to become moot
before being reached by the Court. C is therefore incorrect.

42.  A  Under  the  Supremacy  Clause,  state  legislation  is  invalid  if  it  is
inconsistent with federal law. In a challenge to the constitutionality of
a  statute  excluding  non-citizens  from  public  office,  the  treaties  and
immigration laws of the United States might be relevant to determine
whether federal legislation has already addressed the subject, and, if
it has, to determine whether the state law is inconsistent with it.

B  is  incorrect  since  the  treaties  and  immigration  laws  of  the  United
States  are  not  relevant  to  determine  what  the  privileges  and
immunities of citizenship are. C is incorrect because substantive due
process  has  not  been  held  to  include  the  right  to  hold  public  office,
and procedural due process does not prevent the enactment of a law.
The  doctrine  of  separation  of  powers  refers  to  the  relationship
between  the  three  branches  of  the  federal  government,  not  to  the
relationship of state governments to the federal government, so D is
also incorrect.

43. C  An  oath  to  uphold  the  United  States  Constitution  and  to  oppose  the

189

unlawful overthrow of government is nothing more than a promise to
do something that public employees are legally obligated to do.

A, B, and D are incorrect because some loyalty oaths (such as those
that require a disclaimer of membership in organizations referred to
as  subversive)  have  been  held  to  deny  the  freedom  of  assembly  to
public officials who are required by statute to take them.

44.  C  A  state  law  that  burdens  interstate  commerce  is  valid  if  the  state
interest that the law is designed to protect outweighs the burdens that
the  law  imposes  on  interstate  commerce.  Although  not  enough  facts
are given to allow a determination of whether this is so in the instant
case, C is the only argument that offers any support at all to the state's
argument.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  the  law  is  likely  to  discourage
commerce  from  out  of  state,  even  though  it  applies  equally  to
intrastate  shipments  and  vehicles  garaged  within  the  state.  If  all  or
most  other  states  have  similar  requirements,  that  fact  might  be
relevant in determining that the burden on interstate commerce is not
an unreasonable one. But the fact that some other states have such a
requirement is not enough alone to establish that it is reasonable. D is
therefore incorrect.

45. A Under the Supremacy Clause, a state law that is otherwise valid may
be declared invalid if it is inconsistent with a federal law concerning
the  same  subject  matter.  If  there  is  a  federal  law  like  the  one
described  in  A,  the  Ocean  Fishing  License  Act  may  be  inconsistent
with it. If so, the Act will be invalid.

In the absence of any conflicting federal law, the state law might be a
valid  exercise  of  police  powers  or  revenue-raising  powers.  B  is
therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because there is no indication that
enforcement  of  Section  1  results  in  discrimination.  D  is  incorrect
because  the  Fifth  Amendment  imposes  restrictions  on  the  federal
government, but it is irrelevant to state action.

46.  D  Because  the  activities  of  Agricultural  Conservation  Districts  will
affect  only  owners  of  agricultural  land,  and  because  such  owners
constitute  a  narrow  class  of  persons,  elections  do  not  have  to  be
conducted according to the “one person, one vote” principle.

A  and  B  are  under-inclusive  since  the  “one  person,  one  vote”

190

principle applies to all elections that affect the general public. C is
incorrect  because  states  may  not  exercise  their  own  powers  in  a
manner  inconsistent  with  the  requirements  of  the  United  States
Constitution.

law 

47. A In a challenge to state interference with a “fundamental right,” or to a
that  allegedly  discriminates  against  a  “suspect
state 
classification,” the state has the burden of establishing that the law is
necessary  to  serve  a  compelling  state  interest.  The  United  States
Supreme  Court  has  characterized  marriage  and  procreation  as
fundamental rights.

B is incorrect because although gender-based classification is subject
to heightened scrutiny, the Supreme Court has not held gender to be a
suspect  classification.  C  is  incorrect  because  interference  with
fundamental rights is presumed to be unconstitutional. D is incorrect
for the same reason, and because state exercises of powers reserved
under 
the  Tenth  Amendment  must  be  consistent  with  other
requirements of the federal constitution.

48.  A  The  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits  states  from  engaging  in
invidious  discrimination.  In  A,  the  discriminatory  action  was  by  a
federal officer rather than by a state officer.

Convictions in B and C are likely since the clause has been held to
apply  to  municipal  as  well  as  state  action.  A  conviction  in  D  is
possible if it is found (and it has been in similar cases) that because
of its location in a state office building, and because of the fact that it
is rented from the state, the restaurant is so closely linked to the state
that the Equal Protection Clause should apply to its management.

49.  B  Statutory  language  that  does  not  allow  the  person  of  ordinary
intelligence to know what conduct is prohibited by the statute is vague
and  therefore  unconstitutional.  Language  such  as  that  given  here  has
frequently been held to be vague. Although it is not certain that a court
would  come  to  that  conclusion,  B  is  the  only  argument  that  could
possibly support the defendant's position.

Although  it  may  be  expressive,  conduct  like  the  defendant's  can  be
prohibited as part of “time, place, and manner” restrictions not aimed
at the content of the symbolic speech. A is therefore incorrect. C is
incorrect for two reasons: First, it may not be an accurate appraisal
of  the  reasonable  person's  response  to  the  defendant's  conduct,  and

191

second, the constitutionality of a statute depends on how the person of
ordinary  intelligence  would  understand  it  without  regard  to  any
particular conduct. If the language of a statute can be understood by
the  person  of  ordinary  intelligence,  it  is  not  vague  and  a  conviction
under  it  does  not  violate  due  process  for  the  sole  reason  that  the
statute has been newly enacted and not yet judicially construed. D is
therefore incorrect.

50. D  The  Supreme  Court  has  been  permissive  of  public  aid  to  religious
colleges  since  the  restraint  imposed  by  the  academic  disciplines  of
their instructors and the age of their students make it unlikely that they
are primarily devoted to religious indoctrination.

Almost all direct aid to primary and secondary schools operated by
religious  organizations  has  been  held  to  violate  the  Establishment
Clause.  A  and  B  are  incorrect  for  this  reason,  and  because
investigation  and  classification  of  the  teachers  and  curricula  of
schools  seeking  such  aid  would  necessarily  result  in  excessive
entanglement  of  the  state  with  religious  schools.  Although  the
Supreme  Court  has  approved  the  loan  of  textbooks  purchased  with
public  funds  to  students  at  religious  schools,  C  is  incorrect  since  it
would  involve  the  payment  of  public  money  directly  to  the  school,
and this, too, would probably result in excessive entanglement.

51. B Because problems of water pollution tend to vary from place to place,
it  is  generally  understood  that,  in  the  absence  of  congressional
mandates  to  the  contrary,  states  are  free  to  exercise  inconsistent
pollution controls in the interest of local health and safety.

A is incorrect because problems of pollution may differ, even though
the  water  is  used  for  the  same  purpose  in  various  states.  C  is
incorrect  because  if  Congress  has  enacted  laws  regulating  water
pollution in interstate rivers, inconsistent state regulations are likely
to be invalid under the Supremacy Clause. D is incorrect because the
intrastate nature of the company's business is not relevant to the effect
that the statute may have on interstate commerce.

52.  D  A  state  interference  with  the  free  exercise  of  a  religious  belief  is
constitutionally valid if it is necessary in light of a compelling state
interest.  Since  a  court  might  find  that  a  prohibition  of  the  kind  of
activity  described  by  the  statute  serves  a  compelling  interest  of  the
state, D is correct.

192

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  in
considering a challenge to the constitutionality of a state interference
with religion, the court may not consider the validity of the religious
beliefs in question.

53. A A case cannot be heard by a federal court unless it is ripe. A case is
not  ripe  if  it  has  not  become  sufficiently  concrete  to  be  easily
adjudicated.  If  a  court  believes  that  it  is  very  unlikely  that  a  statute
will be enforced, the court will likely treat the case as not being ripe.
This is so even if the plaintiff has admitted to violating the statute and
is likely to do so again.

D  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  case  is  moot  if  it  no  longer  involves  an
actual  controversy  because  events  occurring  after  the  filing  have
deprived  the  litigant  of  an  ongoing  stake  in  the  controversy  (for
example,  someone  suing  a  school  for  discriminatory  admissions
policies who is allowed to attend and manages to graduate before the
case  is  heard).  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  In  a  few  situations,  courts
will hear a case that is moot — for instance, if the issue is capable of
repetition, yet will likely continue to evade review. This is a situation
where,  if  the  case  was  declared  moot,  a  different  person  might  be
injured  in  the  same  way  by  the  same  defendant,  and  that  different
person's  claim  would  become  moot  before  review.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.

54. A The proper means of attacking an injunction is by judicial proceeding.
Because  of  the  short  time  period  involved,  however,  it  would  have
been impossible to obtain judicial review before the election. If the
organization desires to hold rallies in the future, there is a likelihood
that similarly issued injunctions will likewise evade review. Where a
problem is capable of repetition but likely to evade review — even
though, as here, the injunction being challenged is no longer in effect
— Supreme Court review is available.

B  is  incorrect  because  some  state  interference  with  the  right  to
assemble is permitted, as in the case of valid time, place, and manner
restrictions. C is incorrect because the possibility that similar future
claims will evade review prevents the question from being regarded
as  moot.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  is  not
relevant to anything but state action, and the organization is a private
organization.

193

55. A  If  the  Rebate  Act  was  an  offer  for  a  unilateral  contract,  and  if  the
plaintiff's  commencement  of  performance  can  be  regarded  as  an
acceptance  of  that  offer  (or  as  a  condition  that  prevents  its
withdrawal),  then  the  repeal  of  the  Act  may  be  found  to  impair  the
obligations of a contract. Although it is unlikely that the Act will be
found to constitute an offer, this is the only one of the arguments that
could possibly benefit the plaintiff.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth
Amendment applies only to federal action. There are two Privileges
and  Immunities  Clauses,  but  neither  is  applicable  here.  That  of
Article  IV  prohibits  discrimination  against  out-of-staters,  while  that
of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prevents  states  from  denying  persons
the  rights  conferred  by  United  States  citizenship.  C  is  therefore
incorrect. D is incorrect since the Just Compensation Clause requires
payment for private property that is taken for public use, and here no
private property was taken.

56.  D  It  has  been  held  that  the  First  Amendment  protects  the  right  of
nonprofit organizations who use litigation as an instrument of political
expression to solicit prospective clients.

A  is  incorrect  since  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  nondeceptive
advertising of legal services is protected by the First Amendment. B
is  incorrect  because  the  fact  that  the  advertisement  “could  have  the
effect” of inciting illegal conduct is not sufficient. For that argument
to  be  valid,  there  must  be  both  an  intention  that  the  expression  will
cause  illegal  conduct  and  an  imminent  probability  that  such  illegal
conduct  will  occur.  C  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  although
commercial speech is entitled to First Amendment protection, the fact
that speech is commercial does not in itself mean that laws regulating
it  are  invalid,  and  second,  the  communication  in  this  case  is  more
likely to be regarded as political expression rather than commercial
speech since it does not relate solely to economic interests.

57. D Since the results of litigation become part of the law, the requirement
of  standing  is  designed  to  assure  that  the  person  challenging  the
constitutionality of a statute has an incentive to litigate all issues fully
and vigorously. Ordinarily, this requires that the plaintiff show some
actual  or  imminent  concrete  personal  injury  that  would  be  remedied
or  prevented  if  his  or  her  claim  were  sustained.  The  building
contractor  in  D  stands  to  lose  the  economic  benefits  of  his  contract

194

with the state unless the section in question is invalidated.

A and C are incorrect because the damage apprehended is less direct
and  imminent  than  that  in  D.  B  is  incorrect  since  it  is  generally
understood  that  a  mere  political  or  intellectual  interest  does  not
satisfy the requirement of a personal injury.

58. C The Equal Protection Clause provides that “No state shall . . . deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” A
statute that invidiously discriminates against members of a particular
class  violates  its  requirements.  Although  some  questions  might  exist
as 
is
“invidious,” there is no need to make a determination because, of the
arguments listed, C is the only one with which the plaintiff stands any
chance at all.

the  statute's  discrimination  against  felons 

to  whether 

A  is  incorrect  because  the  statute  in  question  did  not  interfere  with
rights  under  a  preexisting  contract.  Since  the  statute  applies  only  to
persons convicted of felonies within the state, it does not discourage
the interstate travel of felons, so B is incorrect. D is little more than a
statement of moral philosophy and has no basis in constitutional law.

59.  D  Since  the  United  States  Constitution  gives  Congress  the  exclusive
power of legislation over the District of Columbia, there could be no
question about the validity of a federal law applicable only there.

Although  legalizing  gambling  would  probably  promote  certain
interstate economic activity, state concerns for public morals would
probably outweigh the federal interest in protecting such commerce.
This is especially true since all states prohibit or regulate gambling.
A  is  therefore  not  as  effective  an  argument  as  D.  The  Supremacy
Clause applies only where state legislation conflicts with federal law
enacted  within  the  scope  of  the  powers  delegated  to  Congress.
Whether a federal gambling law would be within the scope of these
powers presents a serious question. B is therefore not the best of the
four  arguments.  Since  there  is  no  general  federal  police  power,
Congress  lacks  the  power  to  substitute  scientific  opinion  (or
congressional  opinion)  for  that  of  the  state  regarding  the  public
morality. C is therefore incorrect.

60.  B  In  cases  of  economic  regulation,  the  proper  test  of  constitutional
validity is whether there was a rational basis for the law. This means
that  if  any  situation  can  be  imagined  in  which  the  law  would  be  a

195

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

reasonable way of accomplishing a legitimate purpose, it is valid.

A  is  incorrect  since  the  “compelling  state  interest”  standard  is
ordinarily  applied  only  in  cases  involving  interference  with  a
“suspect classification” or a “fundamental right.” C is incorrect since
the  distribution  of  any  entitlements,  whether  they  are  classified  as
“privileges” or “rights,” must be consistent with the requirements of
the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  “clear  and
present danger” test has been applied only to interference with First
Amendment rights.

61.  D  It  has  been  held  that  significant  state  involvement  in  a  particular
private activity might make the Equal Protection Clause applicable to
the  private  activity.  It  is  possible  that  the  state's  licensing,  funding,
inspection, and oversight of the hospital operation would be sufficient
to have this effect. While it is not certain that a court would come to
that  conclusion,  the  argument  in  D  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could
possibly support the position of the organization.

A is incorrect because the Fourteenth Amendment relates only to state
action or to private action in which the state is significantly involved.
B  is  incorrect  because  cases  have  held  that  licensing  alone  is  not
sufficient  state  involvement.  Although  the  Equal  Protection  Clause
prevents  state  courts  from  enforcing  private  policies  of  racial
discrimination, it does not require state courts to eliminate privately
practiced discrimination. C is therefore incorrect.

62. C A statute that makes the possession or sale of obscene material by a
bookseller  a  crime  without  imposing  any  requirement  of  scienter  is
unconstitutional  because  it  is  likely  to  have  a  chilling  effect  on
booksellers, who probably cannot familiarize themselves with all the
books that they sell.

Statutes  like  that  described  in  A  have  been  declared  valid  on  the
ground that they are justified by a municipality's interest in land-use
planning. Although the United States Supreme Court has held that no
person may be punished for private possession of materials judged to
be obscene unless they involve child pornography, showing films for
a  fee  is  not  private  possession,  even  when  done  in  the  home.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  Court  has  held  that
evidence  of  pandering  may  be  relevant  to  the  questions  of  whether
material alleged to be obscene appeals primarily to prurient interest

196

and  whether  it  lacks  serious  value,  two  elements  of  the  Supreme
Court's definition of obscenity.

63.  D  Since  the  First  Amendment  provides  that  “Congress  shall  make  no
law  .  .  .  abridging  the  freedom  of  .  .  .  the  press,”  a  statute  that
prohibits certain publications probably violates it.

A is not the strongest argument since the President's power to make
executive  agreements  is  broad  and  may  cover  any  area  of
international concern. B is incorrect because there is no constitutional
requirement that an executive agreement must be implemented in the
least  burdensome  manner  possible.  The  executive  agreement  simply
calls  for  the  government  of  each  country  to  “discourage”  the  press
from  making  certain  statements.  Since  this  can  be  accomplished
without violating the First Amendment, C is not a correct statement.

64. D In some cases where a public employee's expressive activities lead to
dismissal,  the  employee  will  be  protected  by  his  or  her  First
Amendment rights and reinstated to his or her position. Here, because
the police officer's activities did not involve political news or public
information about the police department's functioning, his expression
was  not  a  matter  of  public  concern  worthy  of  First  Amendment
protection. Importantly, the officer's speech purposefully exploited the
police department and likely harmed its missions and functions. A is
therefore  incorrect.  Freedom  of  association  is  not  specifically
mentioned  in  the  First  Amendment,  but  is  derived  from  individuals'
rights  of  speech  and  assembly.  Freedom  of  association  refers  to  the
idea  that  if  an  individual  has  a  First  Amendment  right  to  engage  in
particular  expressive  activities,  a  group  has  the  freedom  of
association to engage in that same activity. Here, as stated above, the
officer's  expressive  conduct  did  not  rise  to  the  level  of  conduct  that
would  cause  the  First  Amendment  to  protect  him  in  his  job.
Consequently, B and C are therefore incorrect.

65. C Since the President has broad authority as the chief spokesperson for
the United States in the area of foreign affairs, delegations of authority
by  the  President  in  this  field  are  constitutionally  valid.  On  the  other
hand, the President's broad powers to delegate authority in this area
make  interference  by  Congress  with  such  delegations  a  violation  of
the principle of separation of powers.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  United  States  Constitution  specifically

197

gives  Congress  the  power  to  exercise  some  control  over  foreign
affairs  (e.g.,  the  senatorial  power  to  “advise  and  consent”  in  the
execution  of  treaties),  thus  preventing  the  President's  power  in  this
area  from  being  truly  “sole”  or  “exclusive.”  B  is  incorrect  because
the  Constitution  gives  the  Senate,  not  the  House  of  Representatives,
power  over  foreign  affairs.  Likewise,  D  is  incorrect  since  any
presidential veto can be overridden by a two-thirds vote of Congress.

66. D A case presents a non-justiciable political question when a decision
would  unduly  interfere  with  the  operation  of  a  co-equal  branch  of
government. Article I of the United States Constitution provides that
each house of Congress “shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns,
and  Qualifications  of  its  own  members.”  Since  the  order  that  the
plaintiff  seeks  would  interfere  with  this  power  of  the  Senate,  her
petition might be said to present a non-justiciable political question.

Collateral estoppel prevents the re-litigation of an issue identical to
one that has already been judicially determined. There is some doubt
about  whether  the  doctrine  would  apply  to  determinations  by  non-
judicial  bodies  (such  as  the  Senate).  In  any  event,  A  is  incorrect
because if the doctrine were applied, it would aid the plaintiff's case
rather  than  lead  to  its  dismissal  since  the  issue  of  her  age  was
determined  in  her  favor.  Since  the  qualifications  of  a  United  States
Senator  are  established  by  the  United  States  Constitution,  any
question  about  whether  a  person  is  qualified  to  be  a  United  States
Senator  is  a  federal  one.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  fact  that  the
plaintiff has already had her day in court might lead to a dismissal of
her  claim  if  the  state  court's  decision  had  been  unfavorable  to  her.
Since it found in her favor, however, its decision should not justify a
dismissal of her case. C is therefore incorrect.

67. A Article I, Section 8, clause 4 gives Congress the power to “establish
an  uniform  Rule  of  Naturalization.”  This  has  been  held  to  grant
Congress plenary power over aliens that includes the power to treat
non-citizens  differently  from  citizens  so  long  as  the  discrimination
bears  some  rational  relationship  to  national  policy.  Since  the
the  effect  of  encouraging
provision 
naturalization,  it  is  probably  justified  by  the  plenary  power  of
Congress over aliens.

in  question  could  have 

B and D are incorrect because resident aliens are entitled to many of
but  not  all  the  protections  guaranteed  by  the  United  States

198

Constitution. Since the Equal Protection Clause applies only to action
by the states and is inapplicable to federal action, C is incorrect.

68.  A  The  Fifth  Amendment  “Taking”  Clause  states  that  private  property
cannot  be 
just  compensation.
taken  for  public  use  without 
Consequently,  while  the  government  may  take  private  property  in
certain circumstances, it must pay a fair price for it. Importantly, if the
government  makes  or  authorizes  a  permanent  physical  occupation  of
private property, this action automatically results in a taking no matter
how  minor  the  interference  with  the  owner's  use  and  no  matter  how
important the government interest. C and D are therefore incorrect. B
is  incorrect  because  the  landlord's  religious  beliefs  do  not  become
part of the takings analysis.

69. D  The  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prevents  the
states from depriving any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law. Since the Clean Roads Act made violation of an
administrative  order  a  crime,  it  violated  Fourteenth  Amendment  due
process  by  permitting  the  order  to  be  issued  without  giving  the
defendant an opportunity to be heard.

An ex post facto law is one that punishes as criminal an act that was
not prohibited when it was performed. The Clean Roads Act was not
an ex post facto law because it did not impose punishment for an act
that had already been committed. Instead, it permitted the issuance of
an  administrative  order,  the  future  violation  of  which  would  be  a
crime.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a  law  that
punishes  a  person  without  the  benefit  of  a  judicial  trial.  Since  the
defendant's conviction was the result of a trial, the Clean Roads Act
cannot be called a bill of attainder, making B incorrect. C is incorrect
because the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment applies only
to the federal government and has no application to the states.

70. C The United States Supreme Court has held that state aid to religious
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
schools  is  constitutionally  valid  if  it  has  a  secular  purpose,  a
primarily  secular  effect,  does  not  result  in  undue  entanglement
between  state  and  religion,  and  does  not  produce  political
divisiveness  along  religious  lines.  Since  the  examinations  are
designed to test competence in secular subjects and are to be given in
all  high  schools,  their  administration  in  religious  schools  by  state
employees  is  not  likely  to  result  in  entanglement  or  political
divisiveness. Therefore, if the law has a purpose and effect that are

199

primarily secular, it does not violate the Establishment Clause.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  courts  have  generally  held  that  a  state
taxpayer has standing to challenge the constitutionality of a statute that
will  directly  result  in  an  expenditure  of  state  funds.  B  is  incorrect
because even a law that does not discriminate between religions may
be found to violate the Establishment Clause if it serves to advance
religion in general. If a law violates any of the four prongs of the test
outlined  above,  the  fact  that  it  was  enacted  to  serve  a  compelling
state interest does not prevent it from being unconstitutional under the
Establishment Clause. D is therefore incorrect.

71. B The defendant advocated an act of arson; the fact that the crowd —
carrying  flaming  torches  —  began  following  him  toward  the  clinic
indicates  that  unlawful  conduct  was  immediately  probable.  Speech
that advocates illegal conduct may be constitutionally prohibited if it
advocates action and involves incitement of immediate and probably
unlawful  conduct.  The  defendant's  conduct  may,  therefore,  be
constitutionally  prohibited.  A  law  that  requires  a  permit  for  the
conduct  of  a  public  assembly  but  provides  vague  standards  for  the
granting  of  such  a  permit  violates  the  First  Amendment,  however.
Since  this  ordinance  granted  the  mayor  unfettered  discretion  in
granting permits, it was unconstitutional.

A is incorrect because speech that advocates unlawful action and is
probable  to  immediately  incite  such  unlawful  action  may  be  subject
to  prior  restraint  that  is  constitutionally  permissible.  Although  the
defendant probably did not have a constitutional right to engage in the
conduct  described,  the  requirement  of  standing  is  relaxed  in  a
constitutional  challenge  based  on  vagueness  or  overbreadth.  Thus,
even though the defendant's constitutional rights were not violated by
the  ordinance,  he  has  standing  to  challenge  it  on  the  ground  that  its
vagueness  or  overbreadth  might  result  in  a  violation  of  the
constitutional rights of others. C is therefore incorrect. D is incorrect
because  it  is  over-inclusive.  Some  permit  requirements  (like  those
that  regulate 
time,  place,  and  manner  of  speech)  are
constitutionally valid. Others (like this one, which is based on vague
standards) are constitutionally invalid.

the 

72. A Although the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution gives
Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce, it is understood
that the states may exercise some regulation as well. If, however, the

200

interstate  activity  in  question  is  of  national  concern  and  requires
uniform  federal  regulation,  then  the  states  may  not  regulate  it  in  the
absence  of  a  federal  statute  specifically  authorizing  them  to  do  so.
Since  this  question  calls  for  the  assumption  that  there  is  no  such
federal  statute,  the  state's  attempt  to  regulate  the  interstate  sale  of
petroleum produced within the state would be unconstitutional if that
activity  is  of  a  national  concern  and  requires  uniform  federal
regulation.

Whether an imported product remains in its original package may be
relevant to determining a state's right to tax it under Article I, Section
10(2), which prohibits the states from taxing imports or exports. B is
incorrect,  however,  because  the  “original  package  doctrine”  has
never  been  relevant  to  determining  whether  a  state  may  regulate  a
particular activity. Under the Full Faith and Credit Clause, a state is
required  to  enforce  judgments  and  decrees  of  the  courts  of  other
states. Since the facts in this case do not involve an attempt to enforce
the judgment or decree of the court of another state, the Full Faith and
Credit  Clause  is  inapplicable,  and  C  is  incorrect.  Under  the
Supremacy Clause, a state law is invalid if it conflicts with a federal
law dealing with the same subject matter. In such cases, the field is
said  to  be  “preempted”  by  the  existence  of  a  federal  statute  dealing
with the same subject matter. Here, since there is no federal statute,
there  has  been  no  “preemption,”  and  the  Supremacy  Clause  is
inapplicable. D is therefore incorrect.

73.  D  Because  the  determination  of  any  constitutional  issue  is  likely  to
become an important part of U.S. law, the requirement of standing is
designed  to  assure  that  persons  litigating  constitutional  issues  have
incentive to litigate them vigorously and effectively. For this reason,
standing requires that a party seeking to assert a constitutional issue
must have a personal stake in the outcome. Usually, this takes the form
of an actual or immediately threatened concrete injury that would be
prevented  by  a  favorable  determination  of  the  claim.  Since  the
construction company in D  will  lose  profits  if  the  state  is  unable  to
honor  its  contract,  it  has  the  necessary  personal  stake  to  confer
standing.

Although  a  state  taxpayer  may  have  standing  to  challenge  the
constitutionality of an outlay of state funds, A is incorrect because the
challenge in this case is to a federal statute, not to the expenditure of

201

state  funds.  The  relationship  between  a  federal  taxpayer  and  the
federal  treasury  is  regarded  as  too  indirect  to  confer  standing  on  a
federal taxpayer seeking to challenge an outlay of federal funds. B is
therefore incorrect. An interest that is purely intellectual or political
is generally not held to be sufficiently “personal” to confer standing,
making C incorrect.

74.  D  The  primary  purpose  of  the  exclusionary  rule  is  to  deter  police
misconduct  in  gathering  evidence.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court
has held, however, that after a person has had a full and fair hearing
in  a  state  court  on  his  or  her  claim  that  evidence  against  him  or  her
was seized illegally, additional review by the federal court would be
of  minimal  use  in  deterring  police  misconduct.  For  this  reason,  in  a
habeas  corpus  proceeding,  the  federal  court  is  bound  by  the  state
court's finding regarding a claimed Fourth Amendment violation.

A is therefore incorrect. Although a habeas corpus petition based on
an asserted violation of the United States Constitution can be heard in
a  federal  court  only  after  all  state  court  remedies  have  been
exhausted,  the  exhaustion  of  state  remedies  alone  is  not  sufficient
reason  for  the  federal  court  to  grant  the  petition.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. C is incorrect because a denial of certiorari by the United
States  Supreme  Court  indicates  only  that  fewer  than  four  judges
wanted to hear the claim. It does not reflect any finding on the merits
by the United States Supreme Court, and it does not affect the power
of any other court — state or federal — to hear the claim.

75. A  The  abstention  doctrine  prevents  federal  trial  courts  from  deciding
constitutional issues that are premised on unsettled questions of state
law.  Since  the  constitutionality  of  the  state  statute  would  likely
depend  on  the  meaning  of  the  term  “sexual  deviates,”  and  since  the
facts  say  that  the  state  courts  have  never  interpreted  that  term,  the
United  States  District  Court  should  refrain  from  considering  the
validity  of  the  statute  until  the  state  court  has  had  an  opportunity  to
determine the meaning of the term.

Although  the  Eleventh  Amendment  prevents  federal  courts  from
entertaining damage claims against a state by its citizens or by those
of  another  state,  it  does  not  prevent  those  courts  from  issuing  an
injunction  ordering  a  state  official  not  to  violate  federal  law
(including the United States Constitution). B is therefore incorrect. A
question is said to be moot if there is no longer an issue the judicial

202

determination  of  which  would  affect  the  rights  of  the  parties.  Since
the rejection of the plaintiff's application was based on the state law
described, an order enjoining the state from enforcing it could result
in the hiring of the plaintiff. The question is therefore not moot, so C
is incorrect. A person has standing to assert a constitutional claim if a
judicial determination would prevent a concrete and direct injury to
him  or  her.  Since  a  favorable  decision  could  result  in  the  plaintiff's
being hired, he does have standing. D is therefore incorrect.

76.  A  A  statutory  system  of  classification  is  unconstitutional  if  it  lacks  a
rational basis. Whether or not this statutory requirement has a rational
basis is uncertain, but of the arguments listed, A is the only one with
any possibility of success.

While the Full Faith and Credit Clause requires a state to honor the
judgments  of  the  courts  of  other  states,  it  has  never  been  held  to
require that states honor professional licenses issued by other states.
B is therefore incorrect. Since biology may be studied anywhere, and
since  the  statute  makes  the  study  of  biology  a  requirement  for  all
persons  —  state  residents  and  non-residents  alike  —  there  is  no
indication  that  the  statute  discriminates  against  out-of-staters.  C  is
therefore  incorrect.  The  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth Amendment prevents states from interfering with the rights
that  flow  from  the  relationship  between  a  United  States  citizen  and
the  federal  government.  Since  the  right  to  be  a  hairdresser  does  not
arise from that relationship, D is incorrect.

77. B Material is obscene if it appeals primarily to prurient interest, depicts
sexual  activity  in  a  way  that  offends  contemporary  community
standards, and, on the whole, is lacking in serious artistic or scientific
value.  Although  a  “pandering”  advertisement  used  to  sell  allegedly
obscene  material  might  not  itself  be  obscene,  the  United  States
Supreme Court has held that its contents may be admitted as evidence
relevant  to  a  determination  of  whether  the  material  so  advertised
appeals  primarily  to  prurient  interest  and  whether  it  is  lacking  in
serious value.

The  defendant  has  not  been  charged  with  publishing  an  obscene
advertisement,  so  it  does  not  matter  whether  the  advertisement  is
constitutionally  protected.  Its  admissibility  depends  not  on  whether
the advertisement can be constitutionally punished, but on whether it
is  relevant  to  a  material  issue  in  the  case.  A  and  C  are  therefore

203

incorrect. D is incorrect because, even though not itself obscene, the
advertisement  may  be  relevant  to  determining  whether  the  film  is
obscene.

78.  B  Although  many  presidential  appointments  are  subject  to  the  advice
and  consent  of  the  Senate,  it  has  been  held  that  the  president  may
remove appointees at will so long as they do not perform judicial or
quasi-judicial  functions.  Since  ambassadors  perform  functions  that
are strictly executive, the President may remove them at will.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

79. C Under the Fifth Amendment “Takings” Clause, the government cannot
take property without fair compensation. Importantly, private property
can  only  be  taken  for  a  public  use.  Consequently,  the  government
cannot  simply  take  private  property  and  hand  it  to  another  private
owner without some sort of public use. However, the property does
not have to be generally open to the public after a taking, and it can be
given over to a private party so long as the public can be expected to
receive  some  benefit  from  its  use.  Here,  since  the  houses  were
condemned  as  part  of  an  economic  development  plan  benefiting  the
public,  the  condemnation  was  a  legal  taking  even  though  a  private
party was developing the property.

A and B  are  therefore  incorrect.  In  some  circumstances,  a  land  use
regulation can result in a taking. D is therefore incorrect.

80.  A  Because  the  determination  of  any  constitutional  issue  is  likely  to
become  an  important  part  of  United  States  law,  the  requirement  of
standing  is  designed  to  assure  that  persons  litigating  constitutional
issues have incentive to litigate them vigorously and effectively. For
this  reason,  standing  requires  that  a  party  seeking  to  assert  a
constitutional  issue  must  have  a  personal  stake  in  the  outcome.
Usually,  this  takes  the  form  of  an  actual  or  immediately  threatened
concrete injury that would be prevented by a favorable determination
of the claim. Since the girl has not yet consented to marry the boy, the
state law does not injure or imminently threaten to injure him.

B is incorrect because marriage is a fundamental right, and a statute
that interferes with a fundamental right is valid only if it is necessary
to serve a compelling state interest. Unless males under the age of 19
are not sufficiently mature for marriage and females over the age of
17  are  sufficiently  mature  for  marriage,  the  fact  that  females  mature

204

earlier than males — even if accurate — is irrelevant. C is therefore
incorrect. D is incorrect because the exercise of a power reserved to
the  state  —  even  a  reserved  power  under  the  Tenth  Amendment  —
must be consistent with the United States Constitution.

81. D A claim is moot when there are no unresolved questions for the court
to  determine.  Since  the  injunction  that  the  plaintiff  seeks  has  been
made  unnecessary  by  the  change  in  University  policy,  there  is  no
longer a need for judicial determination. D is therefore correct.

Federal courts lack the power to interpret state constitutions. For this
reason, a federal court may not review a state court decision that is
based on an interpretation of the state constitution (i.e., based on an
adequate  state  ground).  This  principle  does  not  prevent  a  federal
court  from  hearing  a  challenge  to  state  action,  however,  if  that
challenge  is  based  on  the  United  States  Constitution.  Since  the
plaintiff's  federal  court  proceeding  asserts  that  the  United  States
Constitution  prohibits  the  Chancellor's  act,  the  existence  or  absence
of an adequate state ground for the Chancellor's act is irrelevant. A is
therefore  incorrect.  A  court  may  hear  a  claim  even  though  it  has
become moot if the nature of it is such that the question may come up
again and that it is likely to evade judicial review. (For example, the
constitutionality of a statute preventing the abortion of a child could
not  possibly  be  determined  by  the  United  States  Supreme  Court
before  the  birth  of  the  child.)  B  is  incorrect,  however,  because,  in
view of the change in University policy, there is no reason to believe
that  the  claim  will  come  up  again.  Since  the  Eleventh  Amendment
prevents  federal  courts  from  hearing  damage  claims  against  a  state,
the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  had  been  damaged  by  past  denials  of  her
application would not give the court a reason to hear the claim that is
otherwise moot. C is therefore incorrect.

82. A The spending power authorizes Congress to expend funds to promote
the  general  welfare.  Since  the  museum  was  intended  to  serve  all
residents of the United States, the congressional decision to establish
and fund it is probably justified under the spending power.

The Commerce Clause authorizes Congress to regulate the interstate
movement  of  people  or  commodities.  Although  the  museum  is  to
serve  Americans  from  all  states,  the  statute  makes  no  attempt  to
regulate their movement or that of the artifacts to be displayed. B is
therefore incorrect. The Eleventh Amendment prevents federal courts

205

from  hearing  claims  against  a  state.  Since  this  claim  is  against  the
United States, and not against any individual state, C is incorrect. The
doctrine of state immunity relieves states of the obligations imposed
by certain federal laws. D is incorrect because the statute in question
imposes no obligations on a state.

83. B  Article  IV  provides,  in  part,  that  Congress  shall  have  the  power  to
make all needful rules and regulations respecting property belonging
to  the  United  States.  This  has  been  construed  to  mean  that  Congress
— or an agency authorized by Congress — may exercise power over
federal lands substantially, without limitation.

The  Commerce  Clause  is  inapplicable  here  because  there  is  no
indication  that  the  national  preserve  is  involved  in  interstate
commerce  or  movement.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because,  although  Congress  is  empowered  to  spend  for  the  general
welfare,  there  is  no  general  federal  police  power.  The  power  of
eminent  domain  permits  the  government  to  take  private  property  for
public  use  (subject  to  the  Fifth  Amendment  requirement  of  “just
compensation”). Since there has been no taking of private property, D
is incorrect.

84. C The Contract Clause (Article I, Sec. 10) provides that no state shall
pass  any  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts.  The  Clause
applies both to federal and state governments. While state attempts to
rewrite public contracts are subject to strict scrutiny, judicial review
is  not  so  stringent  for  private  contracts.  Consequently,  if  a  state  is
acting  reasonably  in  pursuit  of  a  legitimate  public  purpose,  “mere
rationality”  review  applies  and  even  substantial  modifications  to
private contracts will be allowed. Here, the court has found that the
state's  action  to  save  its  economy  is  reasonable  and  in  pursuit  of  a
legitimate public purpose, so the legislation will be upheld.

A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

85. C An issue presents a non-justiciable political question when a decision
would  unduly  interfere  with  the  exercise  of  powers  vested  by  the
Constitution in other co-equal branches of government. Although it is
by no means certain that this is such an issue, C is the only one of the
arguments listed that has any possibility of success.

It is not clear how a federal court could go about enforcing process
against the President if he or she refused to obey a judicial order, but

206

it is generally understood — and was so held in U.S. v. Nixon, 418
U.S. 683 (1974) — that the federal courts have jurisdiction over the
President. A is therefore incorrect. B  is  incorrect  because,  although
the President is Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, his or her
power  as  such  is  subject  to  limitations  imposed  by  Congress.  The
United States Constitution gives Congress — not the President — the
power to declare war. Thus, if the presidential order sending troops
to the republic was a declaration of war, it would be constitutionally
invalid. D is therefore incorrect.

86. A Procedural due process requires, among other things, a jury trial on
issues  of  fact.  For  this  reason,  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  has
held  that  an  arbitrary  statutory  presumption  violates  procedural  due
process by depriving the defendant of his or her right to a jury trial on
the 
irrebuttable
involved.  The  state  statute  creates  an 
presumption that persons who spent more than three hours together in
a  hotel  room  had  sexual  intercourse.  If  that  presumption  is  an
arbitrary one, it violates the requirements of procedural due process.

issue 

Substantive due process requirements are said to be violated when a
statute  interferes  with  certain  constitutionally  protected  individual
freedoms. This statute forbids sexual intercourse with persons under
the  age  of  16  years.  Since  there  is  clearly  no  constitutionally
protected right to engage in sexual intercourse with such persons, B is
incorrect. The Equal Protection Clause is violated by a state law that
invidiously  discriminates.  Since  statutes  designed  to  protect  young
people against their own lack of mature judgment — particularly with
respect to sexual intercourse — have been held not to be invidious, C
is  incorrect.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a  law  that  has  the  effect  of
punishing  specific  individuals  without  benefit  of  a  trial.  When  the
law  in  question  does  not  name  the  specific  individuals  to  be
punished, it is a bill of attainder if it mandates a punishment based on
preexisting  and  unalterable  characteristics.  Since  the  state  statute
does  not  impose  punishment  without  a  trial,  it  is  not  a  bill  of
attainder. D is therefore incorrect.

87.  B  The  Fifth  Amendment  provides  in  part  that  no  person  shall  be
deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. Due
process includes the right to a fair trial. Since it is possible to argue
that  the  systematic  exclusion  of  aliens  from  the  jury  denied  the
defendant a fair trial, it is possible that the federal statute excluding

207

aliens from juries violated his due process rights. It is, of course, far
from certain that a court would come to this conclusion, but of all the
arguments listed, that set forth in B is the only one that could possibly
lead to a reversal of the defendant's conviction.

A is incorrect because the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment  prohibits  discrimination  only  by  the  state  and  cannot,
therefore,  be  the  basis  of  a  decision  that  a  federal  law  is
unconstitutional.  The  doctrine  of  separation  of  powers  requires  that
the  duties  of  the  federal  government  be  divided  among  the  three
branches  created  by  the  United  States  Constitution  (i.e.,  executive,
legislative, and judicial). It is not applicable here because there is no
claim  that  Congress  interfered  with  any  other  branch  of  the  federal
government by passing the law in question. C is therefore incorrect.
Under the Supremacy Clause, when a state law is inconsistent with a
valid  federal  law,  the  state  law  is  invalid.  For  this  reason,  it  could
not support a conclusion that a federal statute was unconstitutional. D
is therefore incorrect.

88. D The Equal Protection Clause prohibits invidious discrimination by the
state. Since not all discrimination is invidious, a series of standards
have  been  developed  to  determine  whether  a  particular  form  of
discrimination  is  constitutionally  valid.  If  a  discriminatory  purpose
(i.e., a desire to exclude black women between the ages of 18 and 23
from county court juries) was a motivating factor in enacting the law,
or if the law is deliberately applied for that purpose, it is necessary to
turn  to  the  standards  mentioned  above.  If,  however,  a  law  is  neutral
on  its  face  and  is  not  purposely  applied  in  a  discriminatory  way,  it
does not violate the Equal Protection Clause, even though it may have
a discriminatory effect. Thus, the fact that a law has a discriminatory
effect  is  not  sufficient  to  result  in  its  invalidity  under  the  Equal
Protection  Clause  unless  it  is  shown  that  the  law  had  been  or  was
applied  with  a  discriminatory  purpose.  The  fact  that  the  law
effectively  excluded  a  particular  group  may  be  circumstantial
evidence that it was intended — either on its face or in its application
— to have that effect.

A and B are therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because the fact that
an otherwise neutral law had a discriminatory effect is not enough to
make it invalid unless there was a discriminatory purpose.

89. C Article IV, Section 3 of the United States Constitution provides in part

208

that  Congress  shall  have  the  power  “to  dispose  of  .  .  .  property
belonging  to  the  United  States.”  Since  the  battleships  are  property
belonging to the United States, Congress has the power to dispose of
them under this constitutional provision.

A is incorrect because the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment prohibits certain discrimination by the states, but it is not
applicable  to  the  federal  government.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a
legislative  act  punishing  an  individual  or  a  group  of  individuals
without  a  judicial  trial.  Since  the  sale  of  battleships  did  not  punish
anyone,  it  could  not  be  a  bill  of  attainder.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.
Although Congress has the power to spend for the general welfare, it
is generally understood that there is no general federal police power.
D is therefore incorrect.

90. B Under the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution, a state
law is invalid if it conflicts with a valid federal law dealing with the
same subject matter. This principle is frequently used to support the
conclusion that a state attempt to regulate the federal government or a
federal  activity  is  invalid.  A  state  is  free  to  regulate  federal
contractors,  however,  so  long  as  such  regulations  do  not  interfere
with  federal  purposes  or  policies.  If  the  state  pollution  law  were
likely  to  have  the  effect  of  increasing  the  cost  of  producing  bomb
sights for the Department of Defense, it could successfully be argued
that it is invalid under the Supremacy Clause. If, on the other hand, the
state  pollution  law  would  not  significantly  increase  the  costs  of  the
bombsights,  it  would  probably  not  interfere  with  any  federal  policy
and would therefore be valid.

If Winding River is located entirely within the state, it might not be
subject  to  valid  congressional  regulation  under  the  Commerce
Clause. A is incorrect, however, because Congress has other powers
that  might  justify  federal  regulation  concerning  Winding  River.
Congress  may  exempt  federal  contractors  from  compliance  with  a
state  regulation  on  the  ground  that  the  regulation  unduly  interferes
with a federal activity. Since Congress may create such an exemption
impliedly, however, the fact that it has not expressly done so would
not be conclusive. C is therefore incorrect. The question of whether a
river  is  “navigable”  is  relevant  in  determining  whether  the  federal
courts  have  admiralty  jurisdiction  over  it.  D  is  incorrect,  however,
because  congressional  power  to  regulate  activities  on  the  banks  of

209

Winding  River  may  come  from  other  sources  (e.g.,  the  power  to
provide for the common defense).

91.  C  When  an  issue  appears  to  be  moot  as  the  result  of  the  voluntary
conduct  of  the  party  moving  for  dismissal,  the  party  must  show  that
there  is  no  reasonable  expectation  that  the  wrong  will  be  repeated.
Otherwise,  parties  could  avoid  litigation  simply  by  temporarily
changing their actions and then repeating their prior actions as soon as
the  case  was  dismissed.  Since  the  National  Park  Service  has  not
shown that the wrong will not be repeated, C is the best answer.

A  claim  is  moot  when  there  are  no  longer  any  contested  questions
essential  for  the  disposition  of  the  controversy.  However,  A  is
incorrect  because,  as  stated  above,  there  is  no  indication  that  the
National Park Service will not cut tree prices in the future. Although
Congress does have the power to dispose of property belonging to the
United States under Article IV, this power has no relation to whether
a claim is moot or not. Consequently, since the question specifically
states the National Park Service is moving to dismiss on the ground
that the issue is moot, both B and D are incorrect.

92. B  The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  provides  in
part  that  no  person  shall  be  deprived  of  life,  liberty,  or  property
without  due  process  of  law.  Although  “due  process”  is  an  elusive
term,  it  is  generally  held  to  include  the  right  of  appeal.  For  this
reason,  the  provision  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Court  Act  that
provides that there shall be no right of appeal probably violates the
Due Process Clause.

Article  III  of  the  United  States  Constitution  provides  that  federal
judges  shall  hold  their  offices  during  good  behavior.  This  has  been
held  to  mean  that  so  long  as  a  judge  does  not  act  improperly,  he  or
she may not be removed from office during his or her lifetime. This
does not mean that the office itself may not be abolished, however. A
is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because Article III of the United
States  Constitution  specifically  empowers  Congress  to  ordain  and
establish federal courts inferior to the United States Supreme Court.
Although  the  United  States  Constitution  vests  the  judicial  power  of
the United States in the United States Supreme Court, it provides that
the  Court's  appellate  jurisdiction  is  subject  to  such  exceptions  as
Congress shall make. D is therefore incorrect.

210

93.  B  Under  the  Supremacy  Clause  of  Article  VI  of  the  United  States
Constitution,  the  statutes  and  treaties  of  the  United  States  are  the
supreme  law  of  the  land.  This  means  that  a  state  law  that  is
inconsistent with any valid federal law or treaty is invalid. Although
an  executive  agreement  is  not  a  treaty,  it  has  the  same  effect  as  a
federal law under the Supremacy Clause. Since the application of the
state income tax law is inconsistent with the executive agreement that
prohibits  the  taxation  of  Ruritanian  corporations  within  the  United
States,  the  Supremacy  Clause  may  make  the  state  law  invalid  as
applied to the plaintiff.

Although  the  United  States  Constitution  prohibits  the  states  from
taxing  imports  or  exports  without  congressional  consent,  A  is
incorrect  because  the  state  income  tax  is  not  a  tax  on  imports  or
exports. The Necessary and Proper Clause gives Congress the power
to  do  whatever  is  necessary  and  proper  in  carrying  out  its  other
powers.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  constitutionality  of  an  act  of
Congress is not in question. It has been said that states are prevented
from taxing the federal government because “the power to tax is the
power  to  destroy.”  This  argument  is  not  applicable  in  this  case
because the state is making no attempt to tax the federal government.
D is therefore incorrect.

94. B A federal court may refuse to hear a case because it presents a “non-
justiciable  political  question.”  An  issue  is  non-justiciable  if  a
decision  would  unduly  interfere  with  the  exercise  of  powers  vested
by  the  Constitution  in  a  co-equal  branch  of  government,  or  if  it
involves a matter that the text of the Constitution commits to one of the
other branches of government. Since this concept is designed to keep
the judiciary from interfering with the activities of the executive and
legislative  branches  of  government,  it  derives  from  the  doctrine  of
separation  of  powers.  Since  the  United  States  Constitution  provides
that cases of impeachment shall be tried by the Senate, the doctrine of
separation  of  powers  could  result  in  the  court's  refusal  to  hear  the
judge's challenge.

in  criminal
The  Sixth  Amendment  provides 
proceedings shall enjoy the right to counsel. A is incorrect, however,
because the Due Process Clause protects the right to counsel at other
proceedings as well. The abstention doctrine prevents a federal court
from  considering  a  constitutional  question  based  on  an  unsettled

that  defendants 

211

question  of  state  law.  Since  the  judge's  right  to  counsel  at  an
impeachment  proceeding  does  not  depend  on  state  law,  C  is
incorrect.  Article  II,  Section  3  of  the  United  States  Constitution
provides  that  a  judgment  of  impeachment  cannot  extend  beyond
removal  and  disqualification  from  office.  Federal  employment  may
be a “property” interest, however, to which the Due Process Clause
applies. Thus, the fact that the impeachment proceeding results in no
more  than  loss  of  a  job  is  not  sufficient  to  prevent  the  Due  Process
Clause from requiring the right to counsel.

95. A If a law requiring a permit for the exercise of First Amendment rights
is  invalid  on  its  face,  its  constitutionality  may  be  attacked  as  a
defense against a charge of violating it. If, on the other hand, the law
is invalid as applied, the unconstitutionality of its application may not
be  raised  as  a  defense  against  a  charge  of  violating  it.  Instead,  the
appropriate  course  is  to  apply  for  a  permit  and  then  seek  judicial
review  of  the  denial  of  the  application,  unless  there  is  no  time  for
such judicial review. Since the law was already held to be valid on
its face, and since the only claim made by the defendant is that the law
was  unconstitutionally  applied,  this  claim  may  not  be  raised  by  the
defendant  as  a  defense  unless  two  months  would  not  have  been
sufficient  time  to  obtain  judicial  review.  The  facts  do  not  disclose
whether this is so, but the argument set forth in A is the only one listed
that could possibly be an effective response to the defendant's claim.

Although the constitutionality of the ordinance on its face has already
been  decided  by  a  federal  court  (and  is  therefore  res judicata),  the
defendant's  claim  is  that  the  ordinance  is  being  applied  in  an
unconstitutional manner. Since even a valid ordinance may be applied
in  an  invalid  way,  B  is  incorrect.  To  promote  the  public  order  or
other  public  good,  a  law  may  impose  time,  place,  and  manner
restrictions  on  expressive  conduct  so  long  as  these  restrictions  are
not  based  on  the  message  content  of  the  expression.  Since  the
ordinance was found to be constitutional on its face, it probably did
constitute  a  valid  time,  place,  and  manner  restriction.  Like  B,
however, C is incorrect because the application of the ordinance is
being  challenged.  Although  laws  may  regulate  expressive  conduct
even  in  traditional  public  forums,  D  is  not  a  good  response  to  the
defendant's  claim  because  not  all  such  regulations  are  valid.  (Note:
Actually,  regulations  applicable  to  traditional  public  forums  must
face a stricter test than other such regulations.)

212

96. A  The  Constitution  gives  Congress  the  exclusive  power  of  legislation
over  the  District  of  Columbia.  Thus,  although  there  is  no  general
federal  police  power,  Congress  does  have  police  power  over  the
District of Columbia. A is therefore correct.

B is incorrect because there is no general federal police power and
no  specific  congressional  power  to  protect  the  environment.  The
Equal  Protection  clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  provides  that
no state shall deny equal protection of the law to any person within
its jurisdiction. Since it applies only to state action and not to action
by the federal government, C is incorrect. The Necessary and Proper
Clause  gives  Congress  the  power  to  do  whatever  is  necessary  and
proper  in  exercising  its  enumerated  powers  under  the  United  States
Constitution.  Although  it  may  result  in  a  finding  that  an  act  of
Congress is valid, it cannot be used to justify a finding that an act of
Congress is invalid. D is therefore incorrect.

97.  B  The  requirement  of  standing  exists  to  assure  that  all  constitutional
issues will be vigorously and thoroughly litigated. To have standing to
challenge  the  constitutionality  of  a  statute,  it  is  necessary  for  the
challenger to have a personal stake in the outcome of the challenge. In
general,  one  who  is  likely  to  sustain  concrete  harm  that  could  be
avoided  by  a  declaration  that  the  statute  is  invalid  has  sufficient
personal stake to challenge its validity. Since the statute will have the
effect  of  requiring  video  arcade  operators  to  pay  the  tax,  and  since
they  will  not  have  to  pay  the  tax  if  the  statute  is  declared
unconstitutional,  a  video  arcade  operator  would  have  sufficient
personal stake to challenge the statute's validity. Since an association
has standing to assert the rights of its members, B is correct.

Since the arcade operators would be paying the tax, persons who use
video arcade machines will not lose anything if the statute is declared
constitutional.  For  this  reason,  A  is  incorrect.  Since  there  is  no
indication  that  the  new  statute  will  have  any  effect  at  all  on  the
manufacturers  of  video 
the
arcade 
manufacturers  of  such  machines  have  no  personal  stake  in  the
outcome  of  the  challenge  and  thus  lack  standing  to  assert  it.  C  is
therefore incorrect. If the statute has any effect on a corporation that
is  in  the  business  of  converting  coin  slots,  it  would  be  to  increase
rather than decrease its earnings. For this reason, D is incorrect.

amusement  machines, 

98. A  Under  the  United  States  Constitution,  direct  taxes  must  be  allocated

213

among  the  states  in  proportion  to  population,  all  customs  duties  and
excise taxes must be uniform throughout the United States, and no tax
may  be  imposed  on  exports  from  any  state.  Except  for  these
limitations  and  prohibitions,  the  congressional  power  to  tax  is
plenary. For this reason, A is correct.

Although the United States Constitution gives Congress the power to
spend  for  the  general  welfare,  B  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no
general  federal  police  power.  So  long  as  a  tax  is  within  the  lawful
power  of  Congress,  a  court  may  not  inquire  into  the  congressional
motive  for  the  imposition  of  that  tax.  For  this  reason,  C  and  D  are
incorrect.

99. B To assure that constitutional issues will be thoroughly and vigorously
litigated, the requirement of standing makes it necessary for a person
challenging the constitutionality of a statute to have a personal stake
in the outcome of the challenge. A challenger has sufficient personal
stake when he or she has suffered or is about to suffer some concrete
harm  that  can  be  remedied  or  prevented  by  the  court.  Since  the
challenger  in  B  asserts  that  the  statute  will  prevent  the  sale  of  his
property,  he  faces  imminent  concrete  harm.  Since  a  declaration  that
the statute is unconstitutional will permit the sale of his property, thus
preventing that harm, he has sufficient personal stake and has standing
to assert the challenge.

Although an association may have standing to assert the rights of its
members, it is necessary that its members would have standing to sue
on  their  own.  A  is  incorrect  because  the  harm  faced  by  the
association members is not sufficiently concrete to give any of them
standing  to  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  the  statute.  A  state
taxpayer  lacks  standing  to  challenge  any  statute  except  one  that
provides  directly  for  an  expenditure  of  public  funds.  C  is  therefore
incorrect. D is incorrect because the harm that the challenger asserts
is neither concrete nor imminent.

100.  C  Under  the  First  Amendment,  a  public  employee  receives  limited
protection  for  speech  or  associational  activities.  Specifically,  the
employee  may  receive  protection  for  activities  that  are  critical  of
superiors  or  that  the  employer  believes  are  inappropriate  for  the
workplace.  If  the  speech  involves  a  matter  of  public  concern,  the
court  will  balance  the  speech  rights  of  the  employee  and  the
government's  interest  as  an  employer  in  promoting  efficiency  on  the

214

job. Importantly, if the employee has a relatively non-public and non-
policy-making  role,  the  court  is  less  likely  to  find  that  the  speech
justifies  dismissal.  Here,  the  plaintiff  may  not  be  fired  because  his
statement was on a matter of public concern, and his non-public and
non-policy-making  role  meant  the  statement  did  not  show  any
significant  job  unfitness  outweighing  his  right  to  comment  on  public
matters as a private person. A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

101. C  Although  the  federal  government  is  immune  from  state  taxation,  that
immunity does not shield persons working for the federal government,
even where the cost of such taxation will eventually be borne by the
federal  government.  For  this  reason,  a  tax  on  building  contractors
who work for the federal government is constitutionally valid so long
as it does not discriminate against them. C is therefore correct.

Because the power to tax is the power to destroy, it has been held that
any  attempt  by  a  state  to  impose  a  tax  directly  on  the  federal
government  or  its  activities  is  constitutionally  invalid.  A  and  B  are
therefore incorrect. Although persons doing business with the federal
government  may  be  taxed  by  a  state,  the  state  law  may  not
constitutionally  discriminate  against  people  doing  business  with  the
federal government. D is incorrect because the law taxes only those
persons leasing land from the federal government.

102.  D  Under  the  First  Amendment,  a  speaker's  right  to  canvass,  ring
doorbells,  and  give  out  handbills  receives  substantial  protection.
While an individual homeowner is always free to tell the speaker that
he or she doesn't want to listen to the speaker, the government cannot
tell the speaker that he or she cannot speak in advance. Consequently,
even if an ordinance is content-neutral and merely designed to protect
unwilling listeners, the government cannot ban all canvassing even if
a majority of people wishes it would do so.

B  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  is  incorrect  because  a  total  ban  on
canvassing violates the First Amendment whether or not the speaker
has other ways to spread his or her message. C is incorrect because
an outright ban is not made lawful simply because it causes a public
benefit.  The  best  the  city  could  do  here  is  to  pass  an  ordinance
limiting canvassing to certain times.

103. A  A  state  law  regulating  private  contracts  violates  the  Obligations  of
Contracts Clause only if it is limited to altering contractual rights and

215

remedies. Thus a law, such as this one, that regulates private conduct
does not violate the Obligations of Contracts Clause merely because
it incidentally reduces the value of existing contracts. Since the statute
is  not  limited  to  altering  contract  rights  and  remedies,  it  does  not
violate this clause, and A is correct.

The Commerce Clause has been held to prohibit discrimination by a
state  against  out-of-staters  since  this  would  have  the  effect  of
preventing  the  free  movement  of  persons  and  things  between  the
states.  Since  the  state  law  permits  the  disposal  of  wastes  generated
inside  the  state  while  prohibiting  the  disposal  of  wastes  generated
outside  the  state,  a  court  could  find  that  it  violates  the  Commerce
Clause.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  Equal  Protection  Clause
prohibits a state from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws. Since the state law in question denies to
out-of-staters a benefit that is available to state residents, it could be
held  to  violate  equal  protection.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  The
Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  Article  IV  requires  a  state  to
accord  out-of-staters  within  a  state  the  same  treatment  as  residents.
Since this statute does not, it could be held to violate the Privileges
and Immunities Clause. D is therefore incorrect.

104. C  Although  there  are  few  cases  regarding  the  extent  of  the  President's
powers  as  Commander-in-Chief,  it  is  clear  that  they  include  the
command  of  the  military  forces  of  the  United  States.  While  it  is  not
certain  that  this  includes  the  power  to  send  troops  into  a  foreign
country in the absence of any military threat to United States interests,
C is correct because it is the only argument listed that could possibly
justify the presidential order.

A is incorrect because the President's emergency powers apply only
when  there  is  some  threat  to  the  national  interest.  B  is  incorrect
because  the  United  States  Constitution  recognizes  no  humanitarian
power  or  obligation  of  the  President.  The  President's  power  over
foreign  affairs  generally  is  understood  to  refer  only  to  diplomatic
matters,  such  as  the  negotiation  of  treaties  and  executive  agreement
and the receiving of foreign diplomats. D is therefore incorrect.

105. B The United States Constitution grants to Congress the power to spend
for  the  general  welfare.  The  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  adds  the
power  to  do  whatever  is  necessary  and  proper  to  the  execution  of
Congress's  other  powers.  It  has  been  held  that  in  spending  for  the

216

general welfare, the Necessary and Proper Clause permits Congress
to impose conditions to assure that it gets its money's worth. Since the
federal funds covered by the law are to be used for the treatment of
diseases caused by smoking, it is possible to argue that a required tax
that  makes  cigarettes  more  expensive  and  thus  discourages  people
from  using  them  is  a  necessary  and  proper  way  of  protecting  the
investment of federal funds. While it is not certain that a court would
come  to  this  conclusion,  B  is  the  only  principle  listed  that  could
possibly justify the provision in question.

The  taxing  power  is  the  power  to  lay  and  collect  revenues  for  the
federal government. Since the challenged provision would not require
any  payment  to  the  federal  government  or  result  in  any  federal
revenue,  A  is  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  general
federal  police  power  under  the  United  States  Constitution.  The
congressional power to regulate interstate commerce is the power to
control  the  movement  of  people  and  things  across  state  lines.  Since
there  is  no  indication  that  the  addition  of  a  seven-cent  tax  by  states
would  have  any  effect  at  all  on  movement  across  state  lines,  D  is
incorrect.

106. D Article IV of the Constitution states that the citizens of each state shall
be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
states. This is the interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause, which
is  distinguished  from  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment,  which  prevents  a  state  from  denying  certain
rights  of  national  citizenship  (like  the  right  to  travel).  The  interstate
Privilege and Immunities Clause prevents a state from discriminating
against non-residents, but it only covers rights that are fundamental to
national  unity.  Rights  that  are  fundamental  to  national  unity  are  all
related to commerce. These include the right to be employed, the right
to engage in business, and the right to practice one's profession. Here,
since  access  to  employment  is  a  right  fundamental  to  national  unity,
the state's decision to prefer its own citizens is invalid. B is therefore
incorrect.  The  Contract  Clause  generally  involves  situations  where
the government is interfering with a public or private contract that has
already been agreed to. Here, the question doesn't make any specific
mention of a current contract being affected by the state preference. A
and C are therefore incorrect.

107.  D  The  Property  Clause  gives  Congress  the  power  to  make  laws

217

disposing of and making regulations concerning the use of all property
of  the  federal  government.  This  includes  the  power  to  make
restrictions  for  the  purpose  of  preventing  injury  to  federal  lands.
Since Mountain Range National Park is owned and maintained by the
federal  government,  the  Property  Clause  authorizes  Congress  to
prohibit fires within its boundaries. D is therefore correct.

One  of  the  factors  to  be  considered  in  freedom  of  religion  cases  is
whether  the  challengers  are  sincere  in  their  religious  beliefs.  The
United  States  Supreme  Court  has  indicated  that  the  fact  that  a
religious group has engaged in a particular practice for a long period
of time is relevant to determining whether the challengers' beliefs are
sincerely held. Except for this limited purpose, however, the fact that
a particular practice is or is not a traditional one is of no importance.
Since  no  question  has  been  raised  regarding  the  sincerity  of  the
beliefs held by the Followers of the Holy Flame, A is incorrect. B is
incorrect  because  courts  may  not  inquire  into  the  reasonableness  of
any  religious  belief  or  practice.  A  law  that  interferes  with  the  free
exercise of religion is valid if necessary to achieve a compelling state
interest, considering the weight of the government interest, the degree
of  interference  with  a  religious  practice,  and  the  availability  of
alternate  means  of  protecting  the  government  interest.  Although
discrimination between religions and the primarily secular effect of a
law are factors to be considered in Establishment Clause cases, they
play  no  role  in  free  exercise  challenges.  For  this  reason,  C  is
incorrect.

108. A  Under  the  police  power,  states  may  regulate  the  health,  safety,  and
welfare of their citizens. The regulation requiring personal trainers to
have a college degree in physical therapy or sports medicine does not
involve  a  suspect  classification,  so  the  rational  basis  test  would
apply. The goal of protecting citizens from injury is clearly legitimate.
A  court  will  uphold  the  classification  if  there  is  any  conceivable
purpose served by the classification. Here, it is rational for the state
to believe limiting the employment of personal trainers to those with
college degrees in physical therapy or sports medicine would protect
the  health  and  safety  of  state  citizens.  Consequently,  A  is  the  best
answer.

B  is  incorrect  because  even  though  no  suspect  classification  is
involved, a court will not uphold the law if there is no rational basis

218

for  it.  C  is  incorrect  because  financial  ability  is  not  a  suspect
classification,  and  thus  would  not  be  held  to  the  standard  of
substantially  related  to  an  important  government  interest.  D  is
incorrect  because  the  fact  this  law  will  regulate  the  activities  of
privately-owned gyms will not change the analysis.

109.  A  The  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the  United  States  Constitution
prohibits  classifications  based  on  invidious  discrimination.  Not  all
classifications  are  invidious,  however  (e.g.,  persons  licensed  as
attorneys  are  not  permitted  to  perform  surgery,  but  persons  licensed
as  physicians  are).  A  system  of  economic  classification  is  not
invidious if it has a rational basis. If it is more important for lawyers
to keep up to date on the law than it is for doctors to keep up to date
on  developments  on  medicine,  then  the  system  of  classification
adopted  by  the  Continuing  Professional  Education  Act  is  not
invidious and does not violate the Equal Protection Clause.

B is incorrect because even where a state has the right to determine
conditions for a license, it may not do so in a way that denies equal
protection.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  states  may  not  exercise  their
powers  in  a  way  that  violates  constitutionally  protected  rights.
Although the United States Constitution does not specifically protect
the  right  to  practice  a  profession,  it  does  protect  the  right  to  equal
protection.  If  the  statute  invidiously  discriminates  against  certain
professionals,  it  violates  that  right.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  state
bar  association  does  not  have  the  power  to  waive  the  constitutional
rights of its members.

110.  A  The  Eleventh  Amendment  bars  action  against  a  state  for  money
damages in a federal court by a resident or non-resident of the state if
a  judgment  in  the  action  would  have  to  be  paid  out  of  the  state's
general treasury.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  suit  arises  under  a  federal  statute.  C  is
incorrect because this question does not depend on who the plaintiff's
employer  was,  since  the  action  by  employees  of  the  builder  is  for
damages resulting from the state's failure to require the builder to pay
the $10 wage. Unless the employees were aware of their rights, they
could  not  have  waived  them.  D  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no
indication that the employees knowingly waived their rights.

111.  C  Standing  to  challenge  the  constitutional  validity  of  a  state  statute

219

requires  a  personal  stake  in  the  outcome.  The  fact  that  the
organization's production will not be shown so long as the statute is
enforced is a sufficient personal stake to confer standing.

A is incorrect because the personal stake thus created is more than an
intellectual  interest.  B  is  incorrect  because  a  non-recognized
organization would be denied benefits under the statute and thus has
the  necessary  personal  stake.  D  is  incorrect  because  an  affront  to
religious  sensibilities  is  insufficient  to  confer  standing  except  in  a
challenge to the validity of a tax or spending law.

112. C Article III of the United States Constitution gives the federal courts the
power  to  decide  questions  arising  under  the  federal  Constitution.
Since the action in the United States district court is for an injunction
based  on  the  invalidity  of  a  state  statute  under  the  United  States
Constitution, the United States district court has jurisdiction.

A state court decision that rests on an adequate state ground may not
be  appealed  to  the  United  States  Supreme  Court,  but  A  is  incorrect
because this is a new action, not an appeal of a state court decision.
The  abstention  doctrine  may  prevent  a  federal  court  from  taking  a
question  regarding  the  constitutionality  of  a  state  law  when  the
meaning of the state law is uncertain and may be cleared up by a state
court decision. B is incorrect because there is no uncertainty about the
meaning  of  the  state  statute  in  question,  and  therefore  there  is  no
reason to wait for interpretation by a state court. B is also incorrect
because  no  relevant  state  proceeding  is  pending.  D  is  incorrect
because  although  the  Eleventh  Amendment  prohibits  a  federal  court
from hearing a claim for damages against a state, it does not prevent a
constitutional challenge to a state law.

113. C Three tests exist to determine whether a state system of classification
violates  the  Equal  Protection  Clause,  depending  on  the  basis  of  the
classification. Most statutes that regulate economic or social interests
are  constitutionally  valid  if  they  have  a  rational  basis.  Statutes  that
discriminate  against  suspect  classes  or  that  interfere  with  a
fundamental  right  are  valid  only  if  they  are  necessary  to  achieve  a
compelling  state  interest.  Statutes  that  discriminate  against  classes
that  are  close  to  being  suspect  or  that  interfere  with  rights  that,
although  not  fundamental,  are  very  important,  are  valid  only  if  they
are substantially related to an important government interest. Although
alienage  is  ordinarily  regarded  as  a  suspect  classification  requiring

220

application of the compelling state interest test, the rational basis test
is applied when the discriminatory legislation involves standards for
employment in executing public policy or performing functions that go
to  the  heart  of  representative  government.  The  argument  in  C  is
effective in either event.

So  far,  the  right  to  earn  a  living  has  not  been  found  to  be  a
fundamental interest. A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because
systems of classification that serve a compelling state interest are not
invidious even if based on alienage. D is an incorrect statement of the
law; aliens are “persons” under the Equal Protection Clause. Even if
it  was  a  correct  statement,  however,  D  would  not  support  the
woman's position.

114.  D  It  has  been  held  that  a  state  may  establish  durational  residency
requirements to assure that voters will have sufficient interest in the
outcome  of  an  election.  It  has  also  been  held,  however,  that  overly
long  durational  requirements  serve  no  compelling  state  interest  and
are  therefore  invalid.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has
specifically held one year to be too long. See Dunn v. Blumstein, 405
U.S. 330 (1972).

A and C are therefore incorrect. The United States Constitution sets
requirements  for  determining  eligibility  to  vote  in  national  elections
but is silent about the right of aliens to vote in local elections. B  is
incorrect, however, because the city ordinance extends the right to all
persons who satisfy the residency requirement.

115. A Under the Supremacy Clause, a state law is invalid to the extent that it
is  inconsistent  with  a  valid  federal  law  affecting  the  same  subject
matter.  Although  in  paying  its  employees,  the  state  may  be  immune
from federal regulation, this is so only when the state is engaging in a
traditional state function. The United States Supreme Court has held,
however,  that  engaging  in  interstate  commerce  is  not  a  traditional
state  function.  For  this  reason,  federal  law  fixing  the  wages  of
persons  employed  in  interstate  commerce  is  applicable  to  state
employees, and, under the Supremacy Clause, supersedes inconsistent
state law.

B is incorrect because there is no general federal police power (i.e.,
power  to  legislate  for  the  general  welfare).  In  determining  whether
the  state  is  engaging  in  a  traditional  state  function,  and  thereby

221

possibly  immune  from  federal  regulation,  it  is  necessary  to  be  more
specific  than  the  argument  in  C  would  suggest.  Although  paying
employees  is  a  traditional  state  function,  paying  them  to  operate
interstate cruise boats is not. C is therefore incorrect. D is incorrect
because the immunity granted to states under the Eleventh Amendment
is applicable only in federal courts.

116. C The United States Supreme Court has held (Stanley v. Georgia, 394
U.S.  557  (1969))  that  there  is  a  constitutional  right  to  privacy  that
for
protects 
noncommercial use.

the  private  possession  of  obscene  materials 

A is incorrect because the First Amendment freedoms of expression
protect the rights to speak or print, offering only indirect protection to
the rights to see, read, or hear. B is incorrect for two reasons: First,
one  is  not  ordinarily  permitted  to  assert  the  constitutional  rights  of
third  persons.  Although  vendors  may  assert  the  rights  of  their
customers,  no  rule  has  developed  that  permits  vendees  to  assert  the
right of their suppliers. Second, freedom of speech and the press does
not  protect  the  publication  of  obscenity.  D,  too,  is  incorrect  for  two
reasons:  First,  there  is  no  indication  that  the  statute  in  question  was
not  designed  to  punish  purchasers  of  obscenity,  and,  second,  if  the
defendant  presented  an  obscene  performance  as  charged,  he  is  a
publisher of obscenity.

117.  A  The  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  to  the
United  States  Constitution  provides  that  no  state  shall  deny  to  any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Since
the  Building  Rental  Tax  is  imposed  on  those  who  occupy  rented
space, but not on those who occupy space that they own, it is possible
to  argue  that  the  law  denies  equal  protection.  This  argument  might
fail, but it is the only one listed that has any chance at all of success.

Although  the  federal  government  is  immune  from  taxation  by  the
states,  that  immunity  is  not  enjoyed  by  persons  doing  business  with
the  federal  government,  even  though  their  business  is  specifically
authorized by federal statute. B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

118.  B  Federal  statutes  limit  the  Supreme  Court's  review  of  state  court
decisions  to  those  of  the  highest  state  court  to  which  appeal  is
possible. If no appeal is possible in the state courts, then there is no
reason why the United States Supreme Court cannot review decisions

222

of the municipal court.

A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  if  appeal  to  a  higher  state  court
were  possible,  the  case  would  not  be  ripe  for  consideration  by  the
Supreme Court until the highest state court decided it. C is incorrect
because  under  Article  III  of  the  United  States  Constitution,  the
appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is regulated by Congress
and  not  by  the  states.  At  present,  applicable  federal  statutes  limit
Supreme  Court  review  to  decisions  of  federal  courts  and  of  the
highest state courts. D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  this  limitation
does not appear in the Constitution.

119.  B  The  state  may  impose  “time,  place,  and  manner”  restrictions  on
expression  in  protection  of  its  interest  in  promoting  free  access  to
government  buildings  and  the  orderly  conduct  of  governmental
activities. These restrictions may not, however, be based on message
content  because  such  restrictions  unconstitutionally  interfere  with
freedom of speech. Since the statute permits demonstrations involving
one  kind  of  message  and  prohibits  demonstrations  involving  a
different kind of message, it violates the First Amendment.

Although the United States Supreme Court has held that a statute may
not  completely  prohibit  expression  in  traditional  public  forums  like
streets and parks, A is incorrect because this statute is directed only
at the sidewalks in front of government office buildings and does not
prevent  the  use  of  other  parts  of  the  public  forum  for  purposes  of
expression.  The  state's  compelling  interest  in  the  orderly  conduct  of
governmental  affairs  and  in  the  protection  of  free  access  to
government buildings would probably justify a law prohibiting noise
or  demonstrations  in  front  of  government  office  buildings.  C  and  D
are incorrect, however, because the statute imposes restrictions on the
message content of such demonstrations.

120. C Federal taxpayers are usually regarded as being too remote from the
expenditure  of  federal  funds  to  have  standing  to  challenge  them,  but
state taxpayers are not. If a state law involves a direct expenditure of
funds,  as  this  one  does,  any  state  taxpayer  may  have  standing  to
challenge it.

A is incorrect because standing requires a personal stake even if the
challenge is based on an alleged violation of the First Amendment. B
is incorrect for several reasons, but the simplest is that a statute that

223

authorizes  the  advertising  of  services  that  already  exist  does  not
threaten  the  rights  of  unborn  children.  D  is  incorrect  because
philosophical,  moral,  intellectual,  or  political  interest  is  insufficient
to confer standing on a person challenging a law.

121. B The Thirteenth Amendment abolishes slavery and gives Congress the
power  to  make  laws  enforcing  its  provisions.  Discrimination  based
solely on race has been held to involve a “badge” of slavery that the
Thirteenth Amendment authorizes Congress to abolish.

The  Commerce  Clause  gives  Congress  the  power  to  regulate
interstate  commerce  but  imposes  no  obligations  on  anyone.  The
organization's  policy  could  not,  therefore,  violate  “the  spirit  of  the
Commerce Clause,” so A is incorrect. C is incorrect because racial
discrimination  violates  the  United  States  Constitution  only  when
practiced by government. D  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  federal
police  power,  and  thus  there  is  no  congressional  power  to  legislate
for the general welfare.

122. D Whether it is classified as a right or a privilege, a license to practice
medicine  is  an  entitlement  of  which  a  person  cannot  be  deprived
without due process. A is therefore incorrect. Since the denial of this
entitlement  was  based  on  an  arrest  that  did  not  involve  a  hearing,  it
has  been  accomplished  without  due  process  and  thus  violates  the
student's constitutional right.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  federal  courts  have  jurisdiction  to
adjudicate federal questions, and an asserted violation of rights under
the  United  States  Constitution  obviously  raises  a  federal  question.
The deprivation of property interest without a hearing violates the due
process  requirement,  even  though  not  arbitrary  or  capricious.  C  is
therefore incorrect.

123. A If diesel exhaust is harmful to the environment, a tax discouraging the
use of the diesel-powered vehicles might be beneficial to the general
welfare.  Since  Article  I,  Section  8  of  the  United  States  Constitution
gives Congress the power to impose taxes to provide for the general
welfare, A is the best argument in support of the tax.

Although  Congress  may  tax  for  the  general  welfare,  B  is  incorrect
because  there  is  no  “federal  police  power.”  C  is  incorrect  because
the tax is not tied to spending, and there is no indication either that it
is applicable only in states that have received federal highway funds

224

or  that  it  will  result  in  more  efficient  use  of  such  funds.  A  taxpayer
has  standing  to  challenge  the  validity  of  a  tax  that,  if  valid,  will
require  payment  from  the  one  challenging  it  since  he  or  she  has  the
necessary  personal  stake  in  the  outcome  of  the  litigation.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

124. D The President may have the power to abrogate treaties when certain
circumstances  make  such  abrogation  necessary  for  protection  of  the
national  interest.  He  or  she  does  not  have  the  power  to  suspend
enforcement  of  laws  enacted  by  Congress,  however,  except  in
extraordinary  circumstances  (e.g.,  wartime  emergencies,  etc.).  Once
Congress enacted the National Tax Immunity Act, the immunity of the
country's nationals was protected by law, rather than by treaty.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

125. D Since the United States Supreme Court does not have jurisdiction to
determine  whether  a  statute  violates  the  provisions  of  a  state
constitution,  it  could  not  overturn  the  state  court's  finding  that  the
statute  in  question  violates  the  state  constitution.  A,  B,  and  C  are
therefore incorrect.

126.  C  The  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  permits  Congress  to  do  what  is
necessary and proper in carrying out the powers delegated to it by the
Constitution.  It  is  therefore  irrelevant  to  the  constitutionality  of  this
state statute.

A  might  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  section  is  invalid  since  it
obviously discriminates against interstate commerce. B might lead to
the  same  conclusion  since  the  higher  license  fee  imposed  on
nonresidents  could  constitute  invidious  discrimination.  If  Section  1,
which requires a license, is constitutionally invalid, Section 2, which
sets the fees for such licenses, could not be validly enforced. For this
reason,  D  might  likewise  justify  the  conclusion  that  Section  2  is
invalid.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

127.  A  The  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits  invidious  discrimination.
Although a literacy requirement in a voting statute is not necessarily
invidious, A is the only reason listed that could result in a judgment
that the statute is unconstitutional.

Literacy  tests  have  sometimes  been  found  to  be  a  tool  of  racial
discrimination,  but  such  a  finding  generally  leads  to  the  conclusion

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

225

that there has been a denial of equal protection rather than a violation
of the somewhat narrower prohibitions of the Fifteenth Amendment. B
is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because the literacy requirement
does  not  prohibit  or  otherwise  regulate  the  written  use  of  foreign
languages.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  Twenty-Sixth  Amendment
prohibits only discrimination in the franchise based on age.

128.  D  Since  the  United  States  Constitution  grants  Congress  the  power  to
spend  for  the  general  welfare,  Congress  is  entitled  to  attach
conditions  to  its  grants  to  assure  that  such  spending  does,  in  fact,
promote the general welfare. The use of federal funds in a way that is
likely to give cancer to schoolchildren would not promote the general
welfare, and so Congress is empowered to guard against it.

A is incorrect because Congress does not have the power to regulate
education.  B  is  incorrect  because  receipt  of  federal  funds  does  not
result  in  a  surrender  by  the  states  of  the  powers  reserved  to  them
under  the  Constitution.  C  is  incorrect  because  Congress's  power  to
regulate  by  attaching  conditions  to  federal  spending  programs  is
limited,  at  least,  to  conditions  that  are  themselves  constitutionally
valid.

129. D  The  United  States  Constitution  gives  the  federal  courts  jurisdiction

over all cases arising under the Constitution.

Since  the  plaintiff's  argument  is  that  the  statute  violates  the  United
States  Constitution,  and  thus  involves  a  federal  question,  A  is
incorrect.  The  Constitution  does  not  give 
the  federal  courts
jurisdiction over cases between a state and a citizen of that state, so C
is  incorrect.  But  because  a  federal  question  is  involved,  B  is  also
incorrect.

130.  D  In  deciding  whether  an  interference  with  an  activity  required  by
religious  belief  violates  the  Free  Exercise  Clause,  the  courts  apply
the  compelling  state  interest  standard.  Thus,  if  a  statute  serves  a
compelling  state  interest  and  is  sufficiently  narrow  to  be  the  least
burdensome  method  of  achieving 
it  may  be
constitutionally  valid  even  though  it  interferes  with  a  particular
religious practice.

interest, 

that 

A is incorrect for two reasons: First, associations are frequently held
to  have  standing  to  assert  the  constitutional  rights  of  their  members,
and second, since the statute may necessitate a change in the school's

226

curriculum with attendant financial outlays, the school has a personal
stake in the outcome. Although the sincerity of a professed religious
belief  may  be  examined  in  a  free  exercise  challenge,  B  is  incorrect
because the Establishment Clause prevents a court from inquiring into
the  reasonableness  of  a  religious  belief.  Even  a  law  that  is  not
primarily intended to interfere with a religious belief may violate the
Free Exercise Clause if it has that effect. C is therefore incorrect.

131.  A  The  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  authorizes  Congress  to  do
whatever  is  necessary  and  proper  in  carrying  out  its  other  powers,
and  is  therefore  irrelevant  to  the  given  facts,  which  involve  a
municipal ordinance.

Although  certain  regulations  concerning  the  time,  place,  and  manner
of  holding  public  meetings  are  constitutionally  permissible,  such
regulations may not be directed against or in favor of particular types
of message content. B might, therefore, be a good argument since the
ordinance requires a fee for a permit to conduct an assembly for some
purposes,  but  not  for  others.  A  law  is  vague  or  overbroad  if  the
person of reasonable intelligence would not be able to understand its
terms.  Since  Section  2  makes  special  provision  for  “political
campaign” rallies without defining them, it is possible to argue that it
is  vague  or  overbroad.  C  might,  therefore,  be  a  valid  argument.  If
Section 1 is vague or overbroad (which it probably is in view of the
unfettered discretion that it grants to the mayor), it cannot be enforced.
If Section 1 — which requires a permit — cannot be enforced then,
obviously, neither can Section 2 — which fixes a fee for the permit
application.  Thus,  in  spite  of  Section  3,  which  purports  to  make
Sections 1 and 2 severable, D is a good argument.

132. C The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits
invidious discrimination by the state. If the state imposes a tax on the
transportation of unrefined petroleum, but not on the transportation of
any  other  product,  it  is  possible  to  conclude  that  it  is  invidiously
discriminating against transporters of unrefined petroleum. While it is
not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, the argument in
C is the only one listed that could possibly result in a finding that the
statute is unconstitutional.

Although  the  United  States  Constitution  is  silent  as  to  the  rights  of
states  to  tax  interstate  commerce,  it  is  generally  understood  that  a
state tax is valid if it requires interstate commerce to pay its fair share

227

of the value of state services without discriminating in favor of local
commerce.  Thus,  the  fact  that  the  tax  is  imposed  on  interstate
transporters  as  well  as  local  ones  is  not  enough  to  make  it  invalid,
and  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  state's  power  to  tax  activities
performed  within  the  state  does  not  depend  on  a  statutory  grant  of
authority  by  the  federal  government.  Thus,  unless  a  federal  statute
specifically  prohibits  a  particular  form  of  state  taxation,  it  is
presumed  valid.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  state  tax  on  interstate
commerce is ordinarily valid if it bears a fair relationship to services
provided by the state to the taxpayer and will not produce cumulative
tax  burdens.  Since  transporters  of  petroleum  receive  the  benefit  of
using  state  roads,  a  tax  based  on  distance  and  the  quantity  of  cargo
transported bears a fair relationship to that benefit.

Although  neighboring  states  may  impose  similar  taxes,  there  is  no
danger of duplicative taxing since the amount of the tax is related to
activity actually performed within the state. D is therefore incorrect.

133.  B  Article  I,  Section  8  of  the  United  States  Constitution  empowers
Congress  to  spend  money  for  the  general  welfare.  Under  the
Necessary  and  Proper  Clause,  this  spending  power  includes  the
power to impose conditions designed to assure that Congress will get
its  money's  worth  for  sums  spent.  Since  the  size  of  the  vehicles  that
use a highway could affect its longevity, the condition contained in the
State  Highway  Subsidy  Act  is  probably  a  valid  exercise  of  the
spending power.

A is incorrect because there is no general federal police power. The
Property Clause (Article IV, Section 3) empowers Congress to make
needful rules and regulations concerning federal property. Since the
State  Highway  Subsidy  Act  applies  to  the  construction  of  state
highways, the Property Clause is inapplicable and C is incorrect. The
Eleventh  Amendment  prevents  federal  courts  from  hearing  certain
claims  against  states.  It  is  therefore  inapplicable  to  determining  the
constitutionality of a federal law. D is therefore incorrect.

134. A The United States Supreme Court may review a decision when a state
court has held a state law valid under the United States Constitution.
Here,  the  state  court  has  held  the  law  was  valid  under  the  Equal
Protection  Clause  of  the  United  States  Constitution,  so  review  is
available.

228

the 

law 

B  is  incorrect  because  the  important  point  is  that  the  state  court  has
found 
the  United  States
to  be  constitutional  under 
Constitution, not that the highest court in the state denied certiorari. C
is  incorrect  because  whether  a  particular  classification  is  suspect
determines  the  burden  of  proof  to  be  met  for  a  constitutional
challenge,  not  the  availability  of  Supreme  Court  review.  D  is
incorrect because the state supreme court's denial of certiorari means
the appellate court was the highest state court available to the man's
challenge.

135. A  Although  expert  testimony  is  not  necessary  to  establish  that  a  work
does or does not have serious value, it is admissible for that purpose,
so A is correct and D is incorrect. Unless the material is targeted to a
specific  group,  however,  the  standards  of  the  adult  community  must
be applied.

B and C are therefore incorrect.

136. B A statute that discriminates on the basis of age is constitutional if its
system  of  classification  has  a  rational  basis  (i.e.,  if  facts  can  be
imagined  that  would  make  the  statute  a  reasonable  means  of
accomplishing a legitimate purpose). Protection of public health is a
legitimate legislative purpose. Thus, if the work of physical education
teachers is hazardous to the health of older persons, the statute's age
classification  is  a  reasonable  means  of  achieving  a  legitimate
legislative purpose.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  physical  condition  of  one  60-year-old
person is not sufficient to establish a rational basis for a statute that
discriminates against all persons of that age. Even when exercising its
legitimate powers, a state must do so in a way that is consistent with
requirements  of  the  United  States  Constitution.  C  is  therefore
incorrect. Since some physical education teachers may be unqualified
for other teaching positions, the fact assumed in D would leave them
no better off than they would be without it. D is therefore incorrect.

137. D Under the Supremacy Clause of Article VI, a state law is invalid if it
is  inconsistent  with  a  valid  federal  law  covering  the  same  subject
matter.  It  is  easy  to  decide  whether  a  state  law  that  specifically
contradicts  a  federal  law  is  invalid  under  the  Supremacy  Clause.  It
becomes  more  difficult  when,  as  here,  the  state  law  prohibits
something  that  the  federal  law  does  not  mention  at  all.  The  fact  that

229

the  federal  law  is  silent  about  aliens  serving  on  state  juries  might
mean that Congress has permitted aliens to serve on state juries by not
prohibiting such service. It could also mean, however, that Congress
deliberately  left  the  matter  to  regulation  by  the  states.  In  deciding
which conclusion to draw, it is necessary to consider the dominance
of federal interest. Since Congress has primary authority to determine
the legal status of aliens, state legislation that affects aliens is likely
to be preempted by congressional silence. While it is not certain that
a court would come to this conclusion, the argument set forth in D is
the  only  one  listed  that  could  support  a  reversal  of  the  defendant's
conviction.

Although  state  laws  that  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  alienage  are
unconstitutional unless they are necessary to serve a compelling state
interest, they are not per se in-valid. (Also remember that there's an
important exception to the general rule that a compelling state interest
must  be  served:  Where  the  government  job  involves  a  “traditional
government function,” even just a rational basis is enough to make the
restriction of the job to citizens valid.) A is therefore incorrect. The
Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment
prohibits  a  state  from  interfering  with  rights  that  result  from  United
States citizenship. It is inapplicable to this case since aliens are not
United States citizens. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect for two
reasons: First, discrimination against aliens is not necessarily based
on  race,  color,  or  previous  condition  of  servitude,  and  second,  the
Fifteenth  Amendment  prohibits  such  discrimination  only  in  denying
the right to vote.

138. D  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  age  is  not  a  suspect
classification.  Consequently,  a  claim  of  age  discrimination  will  be
unsuccessful  if  the  government  can  show  the  challenged  law  has  a
rational basis. Therefore, B is incorrect.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  “achieve  a  compelling  state  interest”
standard only applies to classifications based on race, alienage, and
national  origin,  not  gender.  For  classifications  based  on  gender,  the
law will only be upheld if it is substantially related to an important
government interest. Therefore, C is incorrect.

139. D Like treaties, executive agreements are the supreme law of the land.
Unlike  treaties,  however,  executive  agreements  do  not  stand  on  the
same  footing  as  acts  of  Congress.  Thus,  while  a  treaty  supersedes

230

prior  inconsistent  federal  statutes,  an  executive  agreement  does  not.
For this reason, Congress may, by statute, limit the president's power
to make executive agreements. If Congress had done so by a prior law
that prohibited the President from making this kind of agreement, the
agreement may be declared void.

Some  executive  agreements  require  subsequent  congressional  action
to operate. Others, called “self-executing,” require no subsequent act
of  Congress  to  become  operative.  This  distinction  is  related  to  the
effect  of  an  executive  agreement,  but  not  to  its  validity.  For  this
reason,  A  is  incorrect.  As  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  prevents  invidious  discrimination  by  the
states, the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment bars arbitrary
discrimination by the federal government. When federal regulation (to
which an executive agreement is equivalent) has nationwide impact,
however,  the  existence  of  overriding  national  interests  may  permit
regulation that would be forbidden to the states. For this reason, the
fact that the executive agreement imposes an increased tax burden on
other  corporations  is  not  by  itself  sufficient  to  make  it  invalid.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  President's  power  to
make  executive  agreements  is  inherent,  and  therefore  it  does  not
require specific authorization from Congress.

140. D A case is not yet ripe and is therefore not yet decidable by a federal
court  if  it  has  not  yet  become  sufficiently  concrete  to  be  easily
adjudicated.  Here,  since  the  plaintiffs  have  not  been  specific  about
the precise acts that they wish to carry out, a court will likely find the
case  is  not  yet  ripe.  When  a  federal  court  determines  an  action  is
unripe, it must dismiss the action entirely.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

141. B In deciding equal protection cases, the United States Supreme Court
has developed three levels of scrutiny. State regulations of social or
economic interests are valid if they have a rational basis. Statutes that
discriminate  against  a  suspect  class  or  that  interfere  with  a
fundamental right are not valid unless they are necessary to achieve a
compelling  state  interest.  Statutes  that  discriminate  against  a  group
that  is  close  to  being  a  suspect  class  are  valid  only  if  they  are
substantially  related  to  important  government  interests.  It  has  been
held that discrimination based on age does not involve a suspect class
or a group that is close to being a suspect class. For this reason, the

231

statute is valid if it has a rational basis. C is therefore incorrect.

The  Eleventh  Amendment  prevents  the  federal  courts  from  hearing
damage claims against a state. Since this proceeding is not an action
for  damages,  however,  the  Eleventh  Amendment  does  not  prevent  it
from being heard. A is therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because age
is  not  a  suspect  class,  and  because  even  a  statute  that  does
discriminate against a suspect class may be valid if it is necessary to
achieve a compelling state interest.

142. D Under its police power, a state may enact laws to protect the welfare
of its residents, even though those laws impose a burden of some kind
on  interstate  commerce,  so  long  as  there  is  no  reasonable,  less
burdensome  way  of  accomplishing  that  purpose.  If,  however,  the
burden that it imposes on interstate commerce is an unreasonable one,
the statute will be in-valid under the Commerce Clause. Although it is
not  certain  that  the  argument  in  D  would  succeed,  it  is  the  only  one
listed that could possibly support granting of the injunction.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  that  a  statute  interferes  in  some  way
with interstate commerce is not by itself sufficient to make it invalid.
Since the state's police power permits it to enact laws for the welfare
of its residents, the purity of food is clearly a matter of local concern.
B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Powers  reserved  to  the  states  may  be
delegated by them to their municipalities and agencies. C is incorrect
because the state's power to regulate commerce is concurrent with the
federal  commerce  power  and  may  thus  be  exercised  by  municipal
governments within the state.

143. B A and C  are  inaccurate  statements  since  there  is  no  general  federal
police  power.  B  is  an  accurate  statement  since  the  spending  power
entitles the federal government to take steps to assure that its spending
benefits the public welfare.

144. A In order to assert a constitutional claim, a person or organization must
have  standing.  This  means  the  person  or  organization  must  have  a
personal stake or direct interest in the outcome. To have standing, the
person or organization must be in danger of suffering some concrete
injury  that  would  be  prevented  or  remedied  if  the  court  grants  the
requested relief. Because the doctor actually uses the city pools, and
the  new  fee  will  increase  his  cost  in  doing  so,  he  will  suffer  a
concrete injury if the new fee is put in place. If a court finds the new

232

injury.
fee  unconstitutional, 
Consequently,  he  has  standing  to  challenge  the  new  fee.  His  wealth
and ownership of his own pool are irrelevant.

the  doctor  will  not  suffer 

that 

B  is  incorrect  because  the  family  only  fears  that  an  increase  could
affect  them  in  the  future.  Unless  the  family  could  show  the  feared
effect is likely to occur, they have no concrete injury. C is incorrect
because a mere intellectual interest in the outcome is not sufficient for
standing. Unless the organization can show its members actually use
the city pools, it lacks the personal stake necessary for standing. D is
incorrect because a declaration that the fee is unconstitutional would
likely  cause  the  very  harm  the  organization  of  city  lifeguards  fears.
Consequently,  such  a  declaration  would  not  prevent  them  from
suffering an injury.

145. D A restriction on speech in a traditional public forum such as a public
park  or  street  corner  is  subject  to  strict  scrutiny.  This  means  the
restriction  must  be  narrowly  tailored  to  achieve  a  compelling
governmental  interest.  The  government  can  impose  time,  place,  and
manner restrictions on speech, but those restrictions must be content-
neutral. This ordinance specifically targets political speech, so A is
incorrect. B is incorrect because the government may not limit speech
on  property  simply  because  it  is  the  property  owner.  C  is  incorrect
because it states the wrong level of scrutiny.

146. C To assure that constitutional challenges will be fully and vigorously
prosecuted, the concept of standing requires that a person challenging
the  constitutionality  of  a  statute  have  some  personal  stake  in  the
outcome.  Usually  this  means  that  the  challenger  must  face  some
imminent concrete harm that would be avoided if the court grants the
relief that he or she requests. Since the plaintiff's complaint is that the
law effectively prevents her from serving on a jury, she lacks standing
unless being deprived of an opportunity to serve on a jury constitutes
concrete harm.

Since  the  plaintiff  does  not  have  a  driver's  license,  the  existing  law
makes her ineligible for jury service. Since a declaration that the law
is  invalid  would  remove  the  disability  imposed  by  the  statute,  the
plaintiff's failure to have a driver's license is more likely to result in a
finding  that  she  has  standing  than  a  finding  that  she  does  not.  A  is
therefore  incorrect.  Under  the  existing  law,  the  plaintiff  will  not  be
called as a prospective juror so long as she does not have a driver's

233

license. On the other hand, a declaration that the law is invalid would
have  the  effect  of  making  her  eligible  to  be  called  as  a  prospective
juror.  Since  this  would  eliminate  the  harm  that  the  existing  statute
causes, the fact that she has never been called is more likely to defeat
than  to  support  the  motion  to  dismiss  her  claim.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.  Since  there  is  no  fact  indicating  that  the  plaintiff  is  or  is
about to become a litigant in the County Court, the possibility that she
will be denied due process if she ever does become one is not harm
that is imminent or concrete. D is therefore incorrect.