QUESTIONS
_____________________________
CIVIL PROCEDURE

29

CIVIL PROCEDURE
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Numbers refer to Question Numbers

I. Jurisdiction 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 12, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 29, 34, 36, 37,

40, 41, 49, 52, 53, 54, 56, 58, 75

     A. Subject matter jurisdiction 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24,

29, 37, 40, 41, 52, 53, 56

          1. Federal question 3, 29, 40, 56
          2. Diversity 4, 5, 6, 14, 16, 21, 24, 41, 52, 53
          3. Removal 4, 16, 41, 53, 56
          4. Supplemental jurisdiction 40

     B. Personal jurisdiction 12, 15, 19, 20, 37, 58, 59, 75

          1. Stream of commerce 12, 58
          2. Minimum contacts 20, 58, 75

     C. Service of process 9, 19, 26, 28, 37, 38, 49, 67
     D. Venue 19, 36, 44, 59

II. Law applied by the federal court 1, 5, 10, 11, 35, 44, 55

III. Issues related to the jury 2, 8, 25, 66, 71, 72, 73
     A. Jury demand 2, 25, 72
     B. Bias 8
     C. Instructions 66
     D. Size of jury 73
     E. Jury verdict 73

IV. Pleadings 7, 13, 19, 24, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 45, 46, 63, 64, 68, 74
     A. Complaint 7, 13, 37, 38, 39, 42, 64
     B. Answer 19, 37, 38
     C. Counterclaims 24, 53
     D. Motion for a more definite statement 37, 39
     E. Motion for summary judgment 39, 63
     F. Motion for declaratory judgment 39, 43
     G. Interpleader 43
     H. Impleader 43
     I. Intervention of right 43, 68, 71
     J. Motion to dismiss 45, 46

30

     K. Amending a pleading 46
     L. Sanctions 64
     M. Crossclaims 74
     V. Discovery 17, 18, 30, 50, 51, 54, 57, 60, 62, 69
     A. Work-product 17, 51
     B. Experts 17
     C. Electronic Discovery 18
     D. Sanctions 18, 54, 62
     E. Depositions 30, 50, 60, 62, 69
     F. Interrogatories 57, 62, 69
     G. Request for production 69
     H. Insurance 69

VI. Class Actions 21, 32, 70

VII. Verdicts and judgments 24, 27, 28, 32, 47, 54, 55, 61, 67, 71
     A. Res judicata (claim preclusion) 24, 32, 47, 55
     B. Remittitur and additur 27
     C. New trial 27
     D. Void judgment 28
     E. Collateral estoppel (issue preclusion) 47, 55, 71
     F. Prejudgment attachment 61
     G. Default judgment 67

VIII. Appellate Review 11, 31, 54
     A. Collateral order doctrine 54

IX. Injunctions and restraining orders 33

X. Joinder of parties and claims 45, 46

XI. Pretrial conference 65

31

CIVIL PROCEDURE

1. A woman was injured when her car collided with a man's vehicle in

State A. The woman was a citizen of State B, and the man was a citizen
of State C. The woman filed her complaint in federal court in State C
based on diversity jurisdiction. Because the man was deceased, she
named the man's executor as defendant. The executor was also a citizen
of State C. Because the executor was not home at the time the woman
served her complaint, she left it with the executor's wife as allowed
under the applicable federal rule. However, both the State C rule and
the State A rule required personal service of process on executors of
estates. The executor moved for summary judgment, arguing service
was invalid because the woman failed to personally serve him with the
complaint.

The court should

(A) grant the motion, because the federal court must apply the law of

the state in which it is sitting.

(B) grant the motion, because the federal court must apply the law of

the state in which the claim arose.

(C) deny the motion, because the motion for summary judgment will

affect the woman's substantive rights.

(D) deny the motion, because the rule is arguably procedural.

2. A man sued a company in federal court for claims based on the federal
National Labor Relations Act. Thirty days after the service of the last
pleading, the man's lawyer filed and served a demand for a jury trial.
The court granted the demand, finding juries normally tried such claims
and there was no compelling reason not to do so.

Is the court's decision correct?

(A) Yes, because the court has the discretion to allow an untimely

request for a jury trial.

(B) Yes, because there is no indication the man intended to waive his

right to a jury trial.

(C) No, the right to a jury trial is waived unless demand is made within

14 days after service of the last pleading.

32

(D) No, a jury trial demand must be made in the initial complaint.

3. A musician, a citizen of State A, sued a company in federal court,

claiming the company violated his federal copyright in a song he had
written when the company used it as an advertising jingle without his
permission. The company was incorporated in State B, and all of its
executives and other decision-makers were headquartered in State C.
The musician sought $30,000 in damages. Later, the woman who co-
wrote the song, who was a citizen of State B, was allowed to join the
lawsuit. She claimed $100,000 in damages.

The company moved to dismiss the lawsuit for lack of subject-matter
jurisdiction. How should the court rule?

(A) Deny the motion, because the woman's claim can be added to the
musician's to meet the amount in controversy requirement.

(B) Deny the motion, because the musician is making a federal

copyright claim.

(C) Grant the motion, because the woman is a citizen of State B.

(D) Grant the motion, because the musician is only claiming $30,000 in

damages.

4. After a man, a citizen of State A, was injured in an automobile

accident, he sued several defendants for $100,000 in damages in state
court in State B. The man sued a truck driver, a citizen of State B, a
doctor, a citizen of State C, and a company, incorporated in State C and
had headquartered in State D. The doctor filed a notice of removal to
federal court in State B. Neither the truck driver nor the company
objected to removal.

Can the suit be removed to federal court?

(A) Yes, because neither the truck driver nor the company objected.

(B) Yes, because the case could have originally been brought in federal

court.

(C) No, because no federal question is involved.

(D) No, because the truck driver is a citizen of State B.

5. A doctor, a citizen of State A, sued a pharmaceutical company,

incorporated in State B and with its primary place of business in State

33

B, in federal court in State B. The doctor claimed $500,000 in
damages based on breach of contract and tortious interference claims,
arguing the actions of the company made it impossible for him to make
necessary contracts with medical suppliers in State C, where he also
had a practice.

In deciding the doctor's claims, what law regarding contracts and torts
should the court apply?

(A) The law of State A, because a plaintiff is the master of his or her

claim.

(B) The law of State B, because jurisdiction is based on diversity.

(C) The law of State C, because this is where the claim arose.

(D) The federal common law, because the doctor chose to sue in

federal court.

6. After being injured by faulty construction work that was done on her
home, a woman, a citizen of State A, sued a contractor, a citizen of
State B, in federal court in State B. The woman claimed $30,000 for
personal injuries, $40,000 for breach of contract, and $10,000 for
negligence. After a trial, the jury only awarded $10,000 in damages for
the woman's personal injuries, and $10,000 in damages for negligence.
The contractor then challenged the verdict, arguing the federal court
lacked jurisdiction over the claim. Did the federal court have proper
jurisdiction?

(A) Yes, because the amount in controversy was over $75,000.

(B) Yes, because the contractor waived jurisdiction by not challenging

it when the complaint was filed.

(C) No, because the woman was only awarded $20,000 total.

(D) No, because no individual claim was in excess of $75,000.

7. A freelance writer sued a magazine in federal court claiming federal
civil rights violations. The court believed the claims made in the
writer's complaint put the magazine on notice and supported a possible
claim, but not a plausible one.

Does the writer's complaint fulfill the applicable requirements of the
federal rules?

34

(A) Yes, because it put the magazine on notice.

(B) Yes, because it supported a possible claim.

(C) No, because it did not contain detailed assertions of the facts

underlying the claim.

(D) No, because it did not support a plausible claim.

8. A man was called as a juror in a case brought in federal court against
his boss. During voir dire, he stated that he was positive he could be
fair and impartial, was planning to start a new job in a few months in a
different state, and had no strong feelings or prior knowledge regarding
the issues brought in the plaintiff's complaint.

Would it be proper for the juror to be excused?

(A) Yes, because his boss was one of the parties.

(B) Yes, because it is likely he had an actual bias in favor of his boss.

(C) No, because he was positive he could be fair and impartial.

(D) No, because he had no strong feelings or prior knowledge

regarding the issues brought in the complaint.

9. A filmmaker from State A filed suit against a producer from State B in
State B federal court. The filmmaker claimed $100,000 in damages
related to business dealings between the two men. The state rules for
service of process were identical to the federal ones. In order to serve
the summons and complaint, the filmmaker first went to the producer's
business office, but the producer was not there. Two adult employees,
members of the company's executive team working on the new video
game that was at the heart of the lawsuit, were at the office, and offered
to accept service. Just as the employees made their offer, the
producer's administrative assistant, who had just turned 18 years old
that day, returned from lunch and offered to accept service. At the same
time, the producer's wife arrived at the office and said she would take
it. The filmmaker declined the offers and went to the producer's home
to see if he was there. When he knocked on the door, the producer's
adult sister answered the door. Although she had nothing to do with the
producer's business, she told the filmmaker she had been living with
her brother for two years and would accept service of the complaint.

Who would be the most appropriate person to accept service?

35

(A) The members of the executive team, because they are company

decision makers.

(B) The sister, because she lives with the producer.

(C) The administrative assistant, because she has implied authority to

act on the producer's behalf.

(D) The wife, because she is married to the producer.

10. A woman, a citizen of State A, sued a doctor, a citizen of State B, in

federal court in State B, claiming $200,000 in damages after she had an
adverse reaction to a drug the doctor prescribed her. The doctor filed a
motion for summary judgment, arguing State B's statute of limitations
for claims such as the woman's had already expired. The woman
countered that her claim was filed well within the federal statute of
limitations.

The court should rule in favor of

(A) the woman, because statutes of limitation are arguably procedural.

(B) the woman, because the federal court applies federal common law

in determining the appropriate statute of limitations.

(C) the doctor, because statutes of limitations are substantive law.

(D) the doctor, because the federal court should apply the law of the

state in which it is sitting.

11. A company filed a diversity action in federal district court in State A
against a man for breach of contract. After a trial, the district court
found the applicable law of contracts in State A was unsettled.
However, the district court ultimately determined that the highest court
in the state would likely rule in favor of the company on that particular
issue. The man appealed, arguing the district court misinterpreted state
law. The court of appeals affirmed, stating it would defer to the district
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
court's determination of state law since it was seated in that state.

Was the court of appeals decision correct?

(A) Yes, because the challenged law is substantive.

(B) Yes, because the district court sits in State A.

(C) No, because the district court was determining unsettled state law.

(D) No, because the district court should have sent the question to the

36

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

state's highest court for a determination.

12. A man, a citizen of State A, sued a company, incorporated in State B

and with its primary headquarters in State C, in federal district court in
State A for $100,000 in damages after he was injured by one of the
company's products. The company filed a pre-answer motion to
dismiss, arguing the court lacked jurisdiction based on diversity
because it was unlikely a court would award the man more than $500.
The court denied the motion. In its subsequent answer, the company
argued the case should be dismissed because the court lacked personal
jurisdiction over it since it had never tried to make money in State A or
use any of State A's roads.

If the company is correct in its assertion, the court should

(A) dismiss the action, because the company did not purposefully avail
itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the forum
state.

(B) dismiss the action, because exercise of jurisdiction would not be

fair and reasonable.

(C) not dismiss the action, because the company did not raise the issue

in its first motion.

(D) not dismiss the action, because the company put a product into the

stream of commerce.

13. An independent contractor, a citizen of State A, sued a company,

incorporated in State B and with its primary place of business in State
C, in federal district court. The contractor claimed $100,000 for false
imprisonment, stating “the contractor was confined in a storage room
overnight when a company employee negligently locked the door with
the contractor still inside.” The contractor did not suffer any physical
harm caused by his time in the storage room.

The company filed a motion to dismiss. How should the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the contractor failed to state a claim.

(B) Grant the motion, because it is unlikely a court would award over

$75,000 in damages in this case.

(C) Deny the motion, because the complaint puts the company on notice

of the claim being asserted.

37

(D) Deny the motion, because there is no indication that it is impossible

for recovery to be over $75,000.

14. A man owned a home in State A and lived there for 30 years. After

meeting a woman online, he decided to sell his house and move to her
home in State B for the foreseeable future to “give love a try.” Three
days later, the man was involved in an accident with a doctor who was
domiciled in State B. He sued the doctor for $100,000 in federal
district court in State B. Shortly after filing his suit, the man moved
back to State A when his relationship with the woman unexpectedly
ended after a fight. The doctor moved to dismiss for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction.

Does the district court have jurisdiction over the claim?

(A) Yes, because the man was a citizen of State A when the injury

occurred.

(B) Yes, because the man was a citizen of State A when the suit was

filed.

(C) No, because the man was a citizen of State B when the injury

occurred.

(D) No, because the man was a citizen of State B when the suit was

filed.

15. A man, a citizen of State A, bought a life insurance online from a

company based in State B. Several years later, a company based in
State C agreed to assume the obligations of the State B company and
mailed a reinsurance certificate to the man. The man accepted the new
offer and paid premiums by mail from State A to the company's office
in State C. The State C company had no other contacts with State A.
When the man died, the company refused to pay the beneficiary of the
policy because it believed the man had committed suicide, which
wasn't covered under the policy. The beneficiary sued the company in
State A pursuant to State A's long arm statute. The company argued the
State A court had no personal jurisdiction over it.

Does the State A court have personal jurisdiction over the company?

(A) Yes, because of State A's interest in protecting its residents in cases

like this.

(B) Yes, because the original policy was purchased online.

38

(C) No, because the company did not have sufficient minimum contacts

with State A.

(D) No, because any judgment would violate the company's due

process rights.

16. A truck driver from State A sued a trucking company in State A court
for violations of the state's wage and hours laws. The truck driver
claimed over $200,000 in damages. The trucking company moved to
have the case removed to federal district court. The trucking company
was incorporated in State B and all of its directors and top
management who directed the company worked in State B. However,
the company had 60 percent of its trucking fleet, its truck-driving
school, and all of its repair centers in State A.

Is removal of the claim to federal district court appropriate?

(A) Yes, because the company is incorporated in State B.

(B) Yes, because the company is directed from State B.

(C) No, because the company has done a significant amount of business

in State A.

(D) No, because the truck driver's claims are based on State A law.

17. A woman sued a company in federal court, claiming several violations

of federal patent law. During discovery, the woman's attorney
inadvertently disclosed a draft report written by one of the woman's
expert witnesses to the opposing party.

May the attorney still claim work-product protection for the draft
report?

(A) Yes, by notifying the company of the accidental disclosure.

(B) Yes, by asking the court for a protective order.

(C) No, because the attorney waived work-product protection by

disclosing the report.

(D) No, because the report was not the final report intended for trial.

18. In 2016, a woman sued a company in federal court after a remote-

controlled toy sold by the company exploded and severely injured her.
She sent a discovery request to the company asking for “all
electronically stored sales records relating to sales of the toys from

39

2006–2016.” Although the company could produce the records for
2013–2016, the remaining sales records had been deleted a month
before the woman had filed suit. The company said that under a new
cost-saving initiative, it had started routinely deleting all sales records
more than three years old to free up space on the company's computers.
However, now that the suit had been filed, it had suspended the
deletions. The woman contacted a computer expert, who said it might
be possible to recover the lost records if the company had an old
machine that had been retired from use before the routine deletions, but
that finding the records would be very expensive and might not recover
anything. The woman argued the company should pay for the necessary
experts to find the missing information.

If the company does not produce the missing information, should the
court order it to do so?

(A) Yes, because the company intentionally deleted the requested

information.

(B) Yes, because the information was potentially recoverable.

(C) No, because the deletions were done as part of the company's cost-

saving initiative.

(D) No, because it was reasonable for the company to delete sales

records that were more than three years old.

19. A man sued a doctor in federal court. The doctor decided to answer the

complaint. Which of the following potential defenses will not be
waived if doctor does not include the defense in his answer?

(A) Insufficient service of process.

(B) Improper venue.

(C) Lack of personal jurisdiction.

(D) Lack of subject matter jurisdiction.

20. After staying in a hotel in State A, a woman, a resident of State B, sued
the hotel for breach of contract in a state court in State B. The hotel
was incorporated and located in State A. The hotel did not do any
business in State B, nor did it have any bank accounts or employees in
State B. However, the hotel did advertise on a billboard in State B and
its Internet site gave driving directions from several cities in State B,
advertised its proximity to State B, and accepted reservations and

40

credit card payments from people all over the world (including people
in State B).

Is the hotel subject to personal jurisdiction in State B?

(A) Yes, because its advertising and Internet site targeted State B

consumers.

(B) Yes, because it advertised on a billboard in State B.

(C) No, because it did not do any business in State B.

(D) No, because the injury occurred in State A.

21. A woman, a shareholder of a company, brought a class action lawsuit
on behalf of herself and all other shareholders against the company in
federal district court. The woman claimed $10,000 in damages, and
noted that there were approximately 50 shareholders of company stock.
If all 50 claims were aggregated, the amount in controversy would be
$500,000 dollars.

Would the federal district court have subject matter jurisdiction over
the claim?

(A) Yes, because it is being brought as a class action.

(B) Yes, because the aggregated amount in controversy exceeds

$75,000.

(C) No, because there is no indication all shareholders will agree to

join the action.

(D) No, because there is no indication any individual claim exceeds

$75,000.

22. In 2016, a man, a citizen of State A, sued a woman, a citizen of State B,
in federal district court in State B. The man and woman had been
married for 10 years in State A before they were granted a divorce by
a court in State A. The woman moved to State B in 2015. During the
original divorce proceedings, the woman was granted custody of the
couple's children, who were born in State A. The man now seeks
custody of the children and alimony in excess of $75,000.

Does the federal court have jurisdiction over the case?

(A) Yes, because the woman moved to State B.

41

(B) Yes, because the children were born in State A.

(C) No, because the divorce was granted by State A.

(D) No, because the man is seeking custody of the children and

alimony.

23. A student, who is a citizen of Ireland, sued a restaurant, incorporated in
State A and with all of its offices in State A, in federal district court in
State A. The student claimed $50,000 in personal injury and $50,000
for breach of contract.

Does the federal court have jurisdiction over the claim?

(A) Yes, because the student is a foreign national.

(B) Yes, because the amount in controversy is over $75,000.

(C) No, because the personal injury and contract claims cannot be

aggregated.

(D) No, because there is no indication the defendant consented to the

federal court's jurisdiction.

24. A man, a citizen of State A, sued a woman, a citizen of State B, for
$100,000 in personal injuries caused by an automobile accident
between the two. After a trial in federal district court, the court ruled
in favor of the woman and awarded no damages to the man. The
woman then filed suit in the same federal district court for $100,000 in
personal injuries she suffered in the same accident. Soon thereafter, the
man moved to State B, intending to stay there indefinitely.

May the woman file her claim in the federal court?

(A) Yes, because the federal court had subject matter jurisdiction over

the first action regarding the accident.

(B) Yes, because citizenship is determined at the time the suit is filed.

(C) No, because the woman's claim is barred under the compulsory

counterclaim rule.

(D) No, because the woman's claim is barred by res judicata.

25. A man sued a company in federal court claiming violations of federal
civil rights and employment laws. Ten days after service of the last
pleading directed to an important fact issue, the man filed a written
demand for a jury trial on that issue with the court and served it on the

42

company. Ten days after his demand, the man reconsidered and moved
to have his jury demand withdrawn. The company opposed the man's
motion.

How should the court rule on the man's motion?

(A) Allow the motion, because the man made the original jury demand.

(B) Allow the motion, because the man made the motion within 21 days

of the last pleading directed to the issue.

(C) Deny the motion, because the man did not request withdrawal

within seven days of the jury demand.

(D) Deny the motion, because the company did not consent to the

withdrawal.

26. State A sent a certified letter to a homeowner informing him that if he
did not pay his delinquent tax bill his property would be put up for
public sale. By state law, the homeowner was required to keep his
mailing address updated, but he had failed to do so when he had moved
out of the home and into an apartment he owned in a nearby city.
Consequently, the letter was returned as “unclaimed” to the state. The
state took no further action before putting the property up for public
sale 20 days later.

After his property was sold, the homeowner sued, claiming the state
had violated his due process rights by failing to notify him of the sale.
Was the state's notification of the sale sufficient?

(A) Yes, because the state sent notification by certified mail to the

homeowner's last known address.

(B) Yes, because the state sent notification by certified mail to the

property that was subject to the delinquent tax bill.

(C) No, because the letter was returned undelivered.

(D) No, because the property was put up for sale less than 60 days after

the letter was returned.

27. After a jury trial in federal district 

court based on diversity jurisdiction, the 
court believed the jury's compensatory 
damage award met the state standard for excessiveness. Consequently,
the court offered the plaintiff the choice of either accepting a lower

43

award than that 
given by the jury or submitting to a new 
trial.

May the court do so?

(A) Yes, because the court believed the award was excessive under the

state standard.

(B) Yes, because the court could simply lower the jury's award if it

chose to do so.

(C) No, because there was no indication the jury's award was so

excessive as to “shock the conscience.”

(D) No, because forcing the plaintiff to accept a potentially lower

award 
violates the Seventh 
Amendment.

28. In what situation may a court grant a party relief from a final judgment

on the basis that the final judgment is void?

(A) When the party discovers new evidence that by due diligence could

not have been discovered in time to move for a new trial.

(B) When the party is deprived of due process by failure to give notice.

(C) When fraud has been committed by the adverse party.

(D) When there has been a clerical omission in the court's judgment.

29. The owner of a gas station, who was a citizen of State A, sued a

trucking company in federal district court. The trucking company was
incorporated in State B, had its entire fleet of trucks and all of its
repair centers in State C, and operated its trucks in 48 states. However,
the company's CEO and other decision-making officers were based in
State A. The gas station owner claimed $20,000 in actual damages and
$1 million in punitive damages, arguing the trucking company violated
federal trucking laws by habitually using a vacant strip of land
adjoining the owner's gas station as a place to move hazardous cargo
from one truck to another as trucks passed through the state.

Does the federal district court have subject matter jurisdiction over the
owner's claim?

44

(A) Yes, because the claim involves a question of interstate commerce.

(B) Yes, because the owner's claim is based on federal law.

(C) No, because the owner is only claiming $20,000 in actual damages.

(D) No, because the trucking company is also a citizen of State A.

30. A songwriter sued a singer in federal court, claiming violation of
federal copyright laws. The songwriter notified the singer that he
planned to depose him for trial. However, on the day of the singer's
deposition, the singer failed to appear.

Was the notice of deposition sufficient to compel the singer's
appearance at the deposition?

(A) Yes, because the singer is an adverse party.

(B) Yes, because there is likely substantial need for the singer's

deposition.

(C) No, because the songwriter did not subpoena the singer.

(D) No, because the singer will likely be called to testify at trial.

31. A woman sued a man in federal district court, claiming his use of her
artwork on his blog constituted a violation of federal copyright law.
The man defended himself by arguing that his use of the artwork met
the legal definition of “fair use” under the applicable law because his
blog was educational and he was writing critically about the artwork.
The federal district court ruled in favor of the man, finding the way he
used the artwork met the legal definition of “fair use.” The woman
appealed the decision.

What standard of review will the appellate court use in making a
decision regarding whether the use of the artwork was “fair use”?

(A) De novo, because whether the use meets the legal definition of “fair

use” is a question of fact.

(B) De novo, because whether the use meets the legal definition of “fair

use” is a mixed question of law and fact.

(C) Abuse of discretion, because whether the use meets the legal

definition of “fair use” is a question of fact.

(D) “Clearly erroneous,” because whether the use meets the legal

definition of “fair use” is a matter of law.

45

32. A city in State A sued the county claiming that the county's occupation

tax violated both the State A and Federal Constitutions. The court ruled
in favor of the county, finding the tax was lawful under both
constitutions. Several county employees in State A then brought a class
action suit against the county, challenging the same tax on the same
basis as the prior claim. The county employees received no notice of
the earlier lawsuit nor were they represented in the prior claim.

Are the employees barred from asserting their claim?

(A) Yes, because their claim is barred by res judicata.

(B) Yes, because their claim is barred by claim preclusion.

(C) No, because the employees did not receive notice of the earlier

suit.

(D) No, because the employees are bringing their claim as a class

action.

33. A man believed his business partner was stealing money from their

business. Consequently, he sought a temporary restraining order from
the court. Which of the following four requirements are not necessary
for the court to grant a temporary restraining order without notice of a
hearing to the man's business partner?

(A) The man must provide some security to pay for any costs or

damages if the partner is wrongfully restrained.

(B) The man must certify in writing the efforts he made to give notice to
his business partner and the reasons why the court should not
require notice.

(C) The man must have first moved for and been granted a preliminary

injunction against his partner.

(D) The man must give the court specific facts showing he will suffer

immediate and irreparable injury.

34. An alternative energy company, incorporated in State A, placed 100
large wind turbines five miles off the coast of State B for the purpose
of generating electric power for the citizens of State A, B, and C. After
a hurricane, many of the turbines were destroyed. Much of the
wreckage ended up in a State B city's harbor, making the harbor
inaccessible to its large scallop and fishing fleet for several weeks.
While some of the ships were able to sail farther up the coast to

46

another harbor in State C, several tons of seafood were lost or spoiled
because the ships couldn't offload their cargo fast enough. Although
there was no way to clearly calculate the damages, city accountants
estimated that the city lost at least $1 million in port fees and fish
processing costs.

The city sued the energy company in federal court, and the company
moved to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Does the
federal court have jurisdiction over the city's suit?

(A) Yes, because the city's claim is substantially related to interstate

commerce.

(B) Yes, because the incident was substantially related to maritime

activity.

(C) No, because all of the company's turbines were off the coast of

State B.

(D) No, because all of the company's turbines were less than 10 miles

offshore.

35. After severe flooding in State A, the Federal Emergency Management
Association issued a check to a woman in State A to fix her home's air
conditioning and heating units. Before the woman received the check, it
was stolen from her mail carrier and cashed with the woman's forged
signature at a small check-cashing business. The check was then turned
over to a bank in State A, and the bank collected the funds owed on the
check from the Federal Reserve. Eight months later, when the United
States learned the check had been stolen, it sued the bank in federal
district court in State A to recover the amount of the check. The bank
responded that the applicable statute of limitations in State A barred
the lawsuit because the federal district court was located in State A
and there was no federal statue on point regarding the issue. The
United States argued that there was no applicable statute of limitations
under federal common law.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

The federal district court ruled that State A law applied to the action
and the United States was barred from bringing its suit. Is the district
court's decision correct?

(A) Yes, because federal courts cannot create federal common law.

(B) Yes, because the federal court must follow the substantive law of

47

State A.

(C) No, because the law is arguably procedural.

(D) No, because the action involves the obligations of the United

States.

36. A man from the Northern District of State A got in an auto accident in
the Eastern District of State B with a truck driver from the Western
District of State C, a security guard from the Western District of State
C, and a doctor from the Southern District of State D. The man sued the
truck driver, the security guard, and the doctor in federal court based
on diversity jurisdiction.

In which judicial districts would venue be proper for the man's action?

(A) The Eastern District of State B.

(B) The Northern District of State A, the Western District of State C,

and the Southern District of State D.

(C) The Western District of State C and the Southern District of State

D.

(D) The Western District of State C.

37. Which of the following motions is lost if a party fails to make it before

filing an answer to a complaint?

(A) Motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.

(B) Motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction.

(C) Motion for a more definite statement.

(D) Motion to dismiss for insufficient service of process.

38. A football player sued a doctor in federal district court. If the

complaint was mailed to her and she waived formal service, how long
does the doctor have to answer the complaint?

(A) Within 14 days after receipt of the complaint.

(B) Within 21 days after receipt of the complaint.

(C) Within 21 days after the complaint was mailed.

(D) Within 60 days after the request for waiver was mailed.

39. A man was a huge fan of a science fiction movie franchise. He owned

48

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

every piece of merchandise that had ever been produced, every single
book, and was the founding member of a group of people who dressed
up as the franchise's characters and went to sporting events, carnivals,
and other events. Finally, he named all of his children after franchise
characters and turned his car into a life-size model of one of the
franchise's spaceships. After a 20-year gap between movies, the
franchise finally released a new film. The man went to go see it and
thought it was terrible. In fact, he thought it was so terrible that it
ruined everything he had ever liked about the franchise. Consequently,
he sued the franchise's owners in federal court for damages to
compensate him for having to buy a new car, rename his children, and
sell all of his merchandise.

How should the franchise's owners respond to the man's complaint?

(A) Make a motion for a more definite statement.

(B) Make a motion for summary judgment.

(C) Make a motion for declaratory judgment.

(D) Make a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim.

40. A poet sued a playwright in federal district court in State A, claiming
the playwright copied a play written by the poet and produced it in a
theater in State A. The poet claimed violations of both federal
copyright law and State A unfair competition laws. The playwright
moved to dismiss the unfair competition claim for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction.

Does the federal district court have jurisdiction over the state claim?

(A) Yes, because success on the federal claim is a prerequisite to

success on the state claim.

(B) Yes, because both claims arose out of production of the play in

State A.

(C) No, because the federal claim does not create pendent jurisdiction

over the state claim.

(D) No, because the unfair competition claim is governed by State A

substantive law.

41. A model, a citizen of State A, sued a lawyer and an accountant in state
court in State A for injuries sustained during a fight at a baseball game.

49

The lawyer was a citizen of State A, and the accountant was a citizen
of State B. The model claimed $100,000 in damages for cuts to his
face and a broken nose that cost him several important modeling jobs.
A year after filing suit, a surveillance tape at the stadium was
discovered. It showed that the lawyer was not involved in the fight at
all, so the model dismissed his claim against him. Twenty days after
the dismissal, the accountant sought removal of the case to federal
district court in State A.

Can the accountant have the case removed to federal court?

(A) Yes, because the lawyer's dismissal was based on newly

discovered evidence.

(B) Yes, because the accountant sought removal within 30 days of the

lawyer's dismissal.

(C) No, because the accountant sought removal more than 14 days after

the lawyer's dismissal.

(D) No, because the accountant sought removal more than one year after

the state court case was commenced.

42. A man, a 55-year-old native of Italy, filed suit in federal district court
against his former employer alleging discrimination based on age and
national origin. The federal district court dismissed the complaint,
finding it failed to allege specific facts constituting a prima facie case
of employment discrimination.

Was the federal district court's decision correct?

(A) Yes, because the man needed to show he had a prima facie case
before the former employer would be required to answer.

(B) Yes, because the action was based on a federal question.

(C) No, because the man only needed to make a short and plain

statement of his claim.

(D) No, because there was no indication that there was no set of facts

on which relief could be granted.

43. A marine mechanic finished repairing a boat that was left in his care.

After the repairs were done, a man, his ex-wife, and a mortgage lender
all claimed to be the true owner of the boat. The mechanic does not
want to keep the boat, and he fears that if he gives it to the wrong

50

person, the other two will sue him for damages.

Under the circumstances, what would be the mechanic's best course of
action?

(A) File an interpleader action.

(B) File a declaratory judgment action.

(C) File an impleader action.

(D) File an intervention of right action.

44. A plane traveling from State A to State B crashed in State A, killing all
of the passengers. One hundred wrongful death actions against the
airline were filed in federal district court in State A. Fifty wrongful
death actions against the airline were filed against the airline in State
B. State A and State B had very different laws regarding the amount of
damages available in wrongful death actions. The airline requested a
transfer of the 50 State B actions to State A federal district court based
on convenience, noting the crash occurred in State A and the majority
of those killed in the crash were State A residents.

If the State B actions are transferred to federal court in State A, what
law will the federal court in State A apply to the State B actions?

(A) State A, because the federal district court is sitting in State A.

(B) State A, because the crash occurred in State A.

(C) State B, because the actions originated in State B.

(D) Federal common law, because there is a conflict between the laws

of State A and State B.

45. A woman, a citizen of State A, underwent surgery in State B. During
the surgery, a medical device that was being implanted in her back
snapped and damaged her spine. The woman sued the manufacturer of
the device in federal district court in State B and sued the doctor and
the hospital in State B state court. The manufacturer moved to dismiss
the woman's action for failure to join the doctor and hospital as
necessary parties under Fed. R. Civ. P. 19(a).

Should the federal district court dismiss the woman's case?

(A) No, because the doctor and hospital are joint tortfeasors.

51

(B) No, because the doctor and hospital are potential defendants in the

woman's action.

(C) Yes, because the doctor and hospital are necessary and

indispensable parties.

(D) Yes, because the doctor and hospital are likely jointly and

severally liable.

46. A cellphone company sued an Internet provider for patent infringement

in federal district court. The Internet provider filed a motion to
dismiss, and the district court ruled in the Internet provider's favor and
awarded attorney's fees and costs. In granting the motion, the court
found that the president and sole shareholder of the cellphone company
had acted in an inequitable way and that his inequitable conduct was
chargeable to the cellphone company. Because it was afraid it would
be unable to collect the court's award, the Internet provider moved to
amend its pleading to add the president personally under Fed. R. Civ.
P. 15 and to amend the judgment to make him immediately liable for the
award under Fed. R. Civ. P. 59(e).

Should the court grant the Internet provider's motion?

(A) No, because the president has not had an opportunity to respond to

the claim for personal liability.

(B) No, because there is no indication that the new claim was the result

of newly discovered evidence.

(C) Yes, because the president was president and sole shareholder of

the cellphone company.

(D) Yes, because the president's actions are chargeable to the cellphone

company.

47. A man sued a carpenter for negligence in federal district court after a
ceiling repaired by the carpenter collapsed and injured the man. The
district court ruled in the carpenter's favor, finding he was not negligent
in making the repairs. The man then sued the company that employed
the carpenter in federal district court, arguing its employee was
negligent in repairing the roof.

May the man do so?

(A) No, because his claim is barred by res judicata.

52

(B) No, because his claim is barred by issue preclusion.

(C) Yes, under the doctrine of respondeat superior.

(D) Yes, because the company was not a party to the claim against the

carpenter.

48. A processor sued a retailer for violation of one of its patents. Pursuant
to Fed. R. Civ. P. 50(a), the retailer moved for judgment as a matter of
law, arguing that there was insufficient evidence to support the
processor's claim. The court denied the motion and sent the case to the
jury. The jury ruled in favor of the processor. The retailer appealed,
again arguing that there was insufficient evidence to support the claim.
The processor responded that the retailer could not raise the evidence
question on appeal because it did not move for either a renewed
judgment as a matter of law under Fed. R. Civ. P. 50(b) or for a new
trial under Fed. R. Civ. P. 59.

May the court of appeals review the sufficiency of the evidence?

(A) No, because the retailer failed to move for a renewed judgment as

a matter of law or a new trial.

(B) No, because the processor received a final judgment from the jury.

(C) Yes, because questions regarding the sufficiency of the evidence

may be brought at any time.

(D) Yes, because the retailer had moved for judgment as a matter of

law before the jury's verdict.

49. Under which of the following situations is a court LEAST likely to find

proper service of process?

(A) The plaintiff personally hands the summons and complaint to the

defendant.

(B) A U.S. Marshal leaves the summons and complaint against a

company with a company vice president.

(C) An 18-year-old college student leaves the summons and complaint
at the defendant's house with the defendant's 18-year-old daughter.

(D) A 21-year-old woman leaves the summons and complaint at the
defendant's house with an 18 year old who rents a room there.

50. Which of the following does not require leave of the court or

53

stipulation of the parties?

(A) Deposing a witness more than once.

(B) Deposing a witness from 9–5 on a Monday.

(C) Deposing less than 12 witnesses.

(D) Deposing a witness over the telephone.

51. A student sued a university for racial discrimination in federal district
court. During discovery, the student asked for “all items concerning
university admission practices.” Several years earlier, a professor at
the university had written a highly critical internal memorandum
concerning the university's admission policies. After the receipt of the
memorandum, the university immediately turned it over to the
university's attorneys, who were now representing the university in the
student's action and used the memorandum in preparing the university's
defense. Due to its inflammatory nature and the amount of hearsay it
contained, the memorandum was inadmissible at trial.

Does the university have to provide the memorandum to the student?

(A) No, because it is inadmissible evidence.

(B) No, because it is privileged work product.

(C) Yes, because it could lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.

(D) Yes, because it would likely be impossible for the student to obtain

the information in any other way.

52. A man, a citizen of State A, and a woman, a citizen of State B, sued a
company, incorporated in State B and with its primary place of
business in State C, in federal district court in State C after one of the
company's trucks got in an auto accident with the man and woman in
State C. The man claimed $100,000 in damages, while the woman
claimed $30,000 in damages.

Does the federal district court have subject matter jurisdiction over the
woman's claim?

(A) Yes, because the man is claiming $100,000 in damages.

(B) Yes, the woman's claim arose from the same auto accident.

(C) No, because the company is incorporated in State B.

54

(D) No, because the woman's claim is less than $75,000.

53. An artist, a citizen of State A, sued a writer, a citizen of State B in state
court in State B for injuries sustained during a fistfight in State B. The
artist claimed $30,000 in damages. The writer filed a counterclaim for
$80,000 in damages based on the same fight.

The artist would like to remove the action to federal court based on
diversity jurisdiction. May the artist do so?

(A) No, because the writer's counterclaim is permissive.

(B) No, because the artist filed the action against the writer.

(C) Yes, because the amount in controversy is now over $75,000.

(D) Yes, because the writer's counterclaim is compulsory.

54. A man sued a company for civil rights violations. When the man's

attorney failed to comply with a discovery order, the company moved
for sanctions under Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(4). The federal district court
granted the motion and also disqualified the attorney as counsel. The
attorney immediately appealed the order for sanctions. The appellate
court dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction.

Is the appellate court's decision correct?

(A) No, because the sanctions are immediately appealable under the

collateral order doctrine.

(B) No, because the attorney was disqualified as counsel.

(C) Yes, because there has been no final decision in the case.

(D) Yes, because appellate review of the order for sanctions is

discretionary.

55. A professor sued an engineer in state court in State A for injuries he

received during an auto accident. The court found that the engineer was
negligent and ruled in favor of the professor. A woman who was also
involved in the accident then sued the engineer in federal court in State
B. The woman sought to use issue preclusion to stop the engineer from
denying his negligence based on the State A decision. The laws of
State A would allow her to do so, but the laws of State B would not.

May the woman use issue preclusion to stop the engineer from denying
his negligence?

55

(A) No, because the federal court must follow the laws of State B.

(B) No, because the woman was not part of the first lawsuit.

(C) Yes, because the state courts of State A would allow it.

(D) Yes, because the State A decision would have res judicata effect.

56. A man, who was a citizen of State A, sued a corporation for violations
of federal copyright law in state court in State B. His claim was for an
injunction that he valued at over $100,000. The corporation, which
was incorporated in State B and had its primary place of business in
State C, filed a petition to remove the action to federal district court in
State B.

Should the action be removed to federal district court in State B?

(A) Yes, because the man is suing for violations of federal copyright

law.

(B) Yes, because there is complete diversity of citizenship.

(C) No, because the corporation is a citizen of State B.

(D) No, because the amount in controversy requirement was not met.

57. A man sued a company for violation of federal employment

discrimination laws, claiming he was unlawfully terminated from his
job. During discovery, the company asked in an interrogatory when,
where, and by whom the man was fired from his position. The
company's president answered the interrogatory, saying the company
vice president fired the man in person in the man's office on December
1. However, after filing his answer, the president learned that the man
was actually fired the day before, by the director of personnel, in the
director's office, and that the vice president only happened to speak to
the man on December 1 because he walked by when the man was
cleaning out his office.

Under the circumstances, does the company need to amend its answer?

(A) No, because the man has not filed a response challenging the

answer.

(B) No, because the company demonstrated good faith in filing its

initial response.

(C) Yes, because the company's response was not based on the

56

president's personal knowledge.

(D) Yes, because the company's response was materially incorrect.

58. A woman, a citizen of State A, was the editor of a magazine that was
incorporated and had its primary place of business in State A. A rival
magazine, incorporated in State B and with its primary place of
business in State B, wrote several editorials in its magazine making fun
of the woman. The woman sued the rival magazine for libel in federal
district court in State C because it was the only state in the nation
where the statute of limitations had not yet run out. Each magazine was
sold nationally, and each magazine sold around 10,000 copies per
month in State C.

The federal district court in State C dismissed the woman's claim,
finding State C did not have jurisdiction. Is the federal district court's
decision correct?

(A) No, because the rival magazine was marketed and sold in State C.

(B) No, because the only forum available was State C.

(C) Yes, because the woman did not have sufficient minimum contacts

with State C.

(D) Yes, because the rival magazine did not have sufficient minimum

contacts with State C.

59. A motorcyclist brought an action in federal district court in the

Northern District of State A against a company after he was injured by
one of the company's trucks. The action was filed shortly before the
statute of limitations ran out on the motorcyclist's claim. The company
moved to dismiss on the grounds that the federal court lacked personal
jurisdiction over the company and that the venue was incorrect. The
federal district court agreed with both of the company's claims.
However, because the statute of limitations on the claim has run out,
the district court believed it would be unfair to the motorcyclist to
dismiss the claim.

What can the court do in regards to the motorcyclist's claim?

(A) The court can only dismiss the case, because it lacks personal

jurisdiction.

(B) The court can only dismiss the case, because venue is incorrect.

57

(C) The court does not have to dismiss the case because it will lead to

an unfair result.

(D) The court can transfer the case to a proper venue.

60. A fireman sued a landlord for negligence in federal district court in

State A based on diversity jurisdiction. The fireman wanted to depose
one of the landlord's former tenants as a witness because he was the
only witness to some of the landlord's allegedly negligent actions.
However, the tenant, who was not a party to the lawsuit, now lived 500
miles away in State B. The fireman's attorney served a notice of
deposition at the tenant's residence, which stated that the deposition
would take place in State A and that the attorney would pay the tenant's
travel expenses. The tenant refused to travel to State A.

Can the fireman's attorney subpoena the witness to compel him to
attend the deposition in State A?

(A) No, because there is no indication the fireman's attorney is licensed

in State B.

(B) No, because the tenant now lives 500 miles away.

(C) Yes, because the tenant was the only witness.

(D) Yes, because the attorney is willing to pay the tenant's travel

expenses.

61. A bar owner sued a doctor in state court in State A for damages related

to an alleged assault and battery. Pursuant to State A law, the bar
owner applied for an attachment of $76,000 on the doctor's home in
order to protect his ability to receive a monetary judgment if he was
successful in his suit. The relevant statute authorized the attachment of
real property without notice or opportunity for a prior hearing,
although a defendant could request a hearing within 30 days after the
property was attached. To receive an attachment, the plaintiff had to
file an affidavit regarding his or her good faith belief that the claim
would be successful. The state court granted the attachment and
immediately informed the doctor.

The doctor filed suit in federal district court in State A, arguing the
attachment violated his rights under the United States Constitution.
How should the court rule?

(A) In favor of the bar owner, because the amount is over $75,000.

58

(B) In favor of the bar owner, because the doctor has 30 days in which

to request a hearing.

(C) In favor of the doctor, because he must be awarded a hearing within

14 days of the attachment of real property.

(D) In favor of the doctor, because the attachment was granted based on

the bar owner's allegations.

62. An engineer sued an oil company for injuries the engineer sustained

during an oilfield explosion. The engineer learned a truck driver who
was nearby was the only physical witness to the explosion, although a
security camera recorded a video of the explosion as well. Twenty
days after filing the complaint, the engineer served the truck driver
with a set of interrogatories asking the truck driver to describe what he
saw. The truck driver doesn't want to answer because he wasn't
supposed to be at the oilfield that day.

Is the truck driver subject to sanctions if he fails to answer the
interrogatories?

(A) Yes, because he was the only witness to the explosion.

(B) Yes, because he was served within 60 days of the suit being filed.

(C) No, because he is not a party to the action.

(D) No, because the engineer can get the same information from the

security camera.

63. A man sued a woman in federal district court in State A for injuries he
sustained from a fight. The woman moved for summary judgment and
provided evidence that she was at work in another city at the time the
fight was alleged to have occurred. In opposition to the motion, the
man submitted an affidavit giving more detailed information about the
fight with the woman. The federal district court believed that there was
very little chance the man wasn't either mistaken or lying regarding the
woman's involvement in a fight with him on the date and time the man
alleged it occurred.

Should the federal district court grant summary judgment?

(A) No, because there is still some chance the man's claim is valid.

(B) No, because the man only submitted an affidavit in opposition.

59

(C) Yes, because the court believes the man is likely mistaken or lying.

(D) Yes, because the court believes there is very little chance the man's

claim will be successful.

64. A banker went into an attorney's office seeking representation against a
bus company. The banker claimed a company bus ran over him while
he was crossing the street, causing serious injuries that led him to
being in a coma for several weeks. The banker said the lingering
effects of the coma made him unable to work. The attorney had a good
faith belief that the banker was telling him the truth, so he filed a
complaint against the company for $5 million in damages on 
the banker's behalf without getting a copy of the police report or any
other evidence. During trial, the police report regarding the bus
accident was produced. It showed that it was the banker's brother who
was hit by the bus and that he only suffered minor injuries. It was also
shown that the banker was never hospitalized and had never stopped
working. Ultimately, the company won the case, but it spent a
considerable amount of money in attorney's fees to do so.

Can the company recover the lost attorney's fees from the banker or the
banker's attorney?

(A) No, because it won the case.

(B) No, because the fees represent a valid contract between the

company and its attorney.

(C) Yes, because the attorney and the banker conspired to commit fraud.

(D) Yes, because the attorney did not make a reasonable inquiry into the

banker's claim.

65. A man sued a woman in federal court for injuries he sustained in an

auto accident. The court ordered the attorneys involved in the action to
attend a pretrial conference. Sometime later, the court ordered a
second pretrial conference. This time, the court required the man and
woman to be present. The man did not want to attend the second
conference because he did not want to see the woman any more than he
had to.

Does the man have to attend the second conference?

(A) No, because a party cannot be ordered to attend a pretrial

conference.

60

(B) No, because a court cannot order more than one pretrial

conference.

(C) Yes, because the court may require him to be available to consider

possible settlement.

(D) Yes, because the man is the plaintiff in his suit.

66. A software manufacturer sued a computer company in federal district
court in State A for breach of contract. The court's jurisdiction was
based on diversity. At the close of the computer company's case, the
computer company asked the judge to instruct the jury regarding certain
points of State A contract law. The judge failed to do so, and the
computer company's attorney failed to notice the omission. The jury
found in the software manufacturer's favor. The computer company
appealed, arguing the judge's failure to give the requested instruction
constituted reversible error. The court of appeals believed the judge
was wrong in failing to give the requested instruction.

How should the appellate court rule?

(A) Reverse the decision, because the computer company had requested

the proper instruction.

(B) Reverse the decision, because the requested instruction was based

on State A law.

(C) Affirm the decision, because the requested instruction was based

on State A law.

(D) Affirm the decision, because the computer company's attorney

failed to object.

67. A woman sued a doctor in federal district court for injuries she

sustained during a surgical procedure. Her attorney hired an 18-year-
old process server, who served the summons and complaint by leaving
it at the doctor's home with his 17-year-old son. The doctor failed to
file any response with the court.

If the woman moves for a default judgment, how should the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the doctor had to respond within 21

days.

(B) Grant the motion, because the doctor had to respond within 60

days.

61

(C) Deny the motion, because the doctor's son was only 17 years old.

(D) Deny the motion, because the process server was only 18 years

old.

68. A civil rights activist filed a class action in federal district court in
State A against the State A Board of Education. The suit alleged that
the school district engaged in discrimination against low-income
students, specifically by giving more funding to schools in richer areas
than to schools in poorer areas. A woman, who was the parent of a
child who attended a school in one of the poorer areas, sought to
intervene as of right in the action as a co-plaintiff.

May the woman intervene as of right?

(A) Yes, because there is no indication the existing parties will

adequately represent her interest.

(B) Yes, because she has a child attending a school in a poorer area.

(C) No, because the action is being brought as a class action.

(D) No, because the action is being brought against a government entity.

69. A woman sued a psychiatrist for damages she claimed resulted from
the psychiatrist hypnotizing her during a counseling session. The
woman's attorney wanted to know whether the psychiatrist had any
malpractice insurance that might cover the woman's claim, and whether
that insurance might have an exclusion for alternative methods of
treatment.

What does the woman's attorney need to do to find out whether the
psychiatrist has an insurance policy?

(A) Serve the psychiatrist with an interrogatory asking the relevant

question.

(B) Depose the psychiatrist regarding whether she has an insurance

policy.

(C) File a request for production with the court.

(D) Nothing.

70. Two members of a local golf club wanted to bring a federal class

action lawsuit against the club for racial discrimination. One of the
members was a lawyer, and the other member was a doctor. The

62

member who was a lawyer would serve as class representative. The
two members claimed that the club systematically denied membership
perks to black members. The doctor and the lawyer each claimed
$100,000 in damages. There were 10 other black members of the club,
who likely had damages of around $10,000 each.

May the group proceed as a class action?

(A) Yes, because the doctor and the lawyer are each claiming $100,000

in damages.

(B) Yes, because a class action serves the interest of judicial economy.

(C) No, because joinder of the class members is not impracticable.

(D) No, because each of the other 10 potential members likely had

damages of around $10,000 each.

71. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed suit against
a company, alleging that its proxy statement was false and misleading.
The federal district court ruled in favor of the SEC. A shareholder than
filed an action for securities fraud against the company in federal
district court. The shareholder moved for partial summary judgment
against the company, arguing that the company was collaterally
estopped from re-litigating the question of validity of the proxy
statement.

How should the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the issue was decided in the SEC action.

(B) Grant the motion, because it is unlikely the shareholder could have

intervened in the SEC action.

(C) Deny the motion, because to grant it would violate the company's

right to a jury trial on that issue.

(D) Deny the motion, because the shareholder was not a party to the

SEC action.

72. A singer sued a company in federal district court seeking an injunction
to prevent the company from selling any copies of an album the singer
recorded when he was a child. The singer would like to have his claim
decided by a jury.

What does the singer need to do to have a jury hear his claim?

63

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(A) Nothing, because the singer is not entitled to a jury.

(B) Serve the company with a separate written demand within 14 days

of the last pleading directed to the issue.

(C) Serve the company either a separate written demand or a demand
included within another pleading within 14 days of the last
pleading directed to the issue.

(D) File a written demand with the court within 14 days of filing the

complaint.

73. A man sued a company in federal district court in State A for injuries
he received after riding on one of the company's rollercoasters. The
case was tried in front of a seven-member jury. The jury returned a
verdict 5-2 in favor of the man.

May a verdict be entered in the man's favor?

(A) No, because the verdict was not unanimous.

(B) No, because the jury had less than 12 members.

(C) Yes, because the majority of the jury ruled in the man's favor.

(D) Yes, because a super majority ruled in the man's favor.

74. A computer manufacturer shipped 100 computers to a store through a
special delivery service. When the computers arrived at the store, all
of them had cracked screens, and the store refused to pay. The
manufacturer then filed suit against both the store and the delivery
company in federal district court. The manufacturer was incorporated
and had its primary place of business in State A. The delivery company
was incorporated in State B and had its primary place of business in
State B. The store was incorporated in State C and had its primary
place of business in State B. The store wanted to make a claim against
the delivery service for the damaged computers, but it wanted to file its
own claim in State B state court after the manufacturer's claim is over.

May the store do so?

(A) No, because the issue of liability will already be fully litigated.

(B) No, because the claim arises from the same transaction or

occurrence.

(C) Yes, because the store's claim is optional.

64

(D) Yes, because both the store and the delivery service are citizens of

the same state.

75. A sporting goods company sued a supplier in federal district court in

State A. The supplier moved to dismiss the claim for lack of
jurisdiction, arguing it did not have sufficient minimum contacts with
State A for State A to have personal jurisdiction over it. The supplier
only had one salesman in State A, and that salesman worked out of his
home and was paid through commissions. Importantly, the supplier
noted it owned no property in State A and derived only a small part of
its total revenue from State A. The sporting goods company countered
that orders and samples were subject to the supplier's approval and
shipped directly from the supplier to buyers.

Does the court in State A have jurisdiction over the supplier?

(A) Yes, because the salesman solicited orders for the supplier in State

A.

(B) Yes, because the supplier shipped directly to buyers.

(C) No, because the supplier only had one salesman in the state.

(D) No, because the salesman worked out of his home and was paid

through commissions.

65

ANSWERS
____________________
CIVIL PROCEDURE

66

ANSWERS TO 
CIVIL PROCEDURE QUESTIONS

1. D  While  federal  courts  sitting  in  diversity  apply  the  substantive  law  of
the state in which they are sitting, they apply federal procedural law if
the law is valid and on point. Importantly, under Hanna v. Plumer, 380
U.S.  460  (1965),  a  federal  court  sitting  in  diversity  will  apply  the
applicable  federal  rule  if  it  is  “arguably  procedural.”  Here,  the
conflicting rules in question cover the procedure necessary for service
of process, so the federal law is on point.

A  is  incorrect  because  while  a  federal  court  sitting  in  diversity  is
required  to  apply  the  state's  substantive  law,  it  is  not  required  to
apply the state's procedural law. Consequently, the statement in A is
too  broad.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  law  of  the  state  in  which  the
claim arose would be irrelevant in this case. C is incorrect because
although  the  motion  for  summary  judgment  itself  may  affect  the
woman's  substantive  rights,  the  issue  regarding  service  is  a
procedural one.

2. A Rule 38 states that failure to demand a jury trial within 14 days after
service  of  the  last  pleading  directed  to  the  issue  on  which  a  jury  is
sought results in a waiver of the right to a jury trial. However, Rule 39
gives  a  court  the  discretion  to  grant  a  belated  motion.  Importantly,  a
court  should  do  so  in  the  absence  of  compelling  reasons  to  the
contrary.  See  Cox  v.  Masland  &  Sons,  Inc.,  607  F.2d  138  (5th  Cir.
1979). Therefore, C is incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  although  there  is  no  indication  the  man
intended to waive his right, the decision to allow a jury trial is still
within the discretion of the court. D is incorrect because the demand
for a jury trial does not need to be made in the initial complaint.

3. B Under 28 U.S.C. §1331, federal courts have subject matter jurisdiction
over  claims  arising  under  federal  law.  Here,  since  the  musician  is
making a federal copyright claim, the jurisdiction of the federal court
is proper.

If a claim arises under federal law, there is no amount in controversy
irrelevant.
requirement  and 
Consequently, the woman's addition to the lawsuit and her citizenship
and  damage  claim  will  not  change  the  court's  federal  question

the  citizenship  of 

the  parties 

is 

67

jurisdiction  in  any  way.  Therefore,  A  and  C  are  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect because there is no amount in controversy requirement for
federal question jurisdiction, so it doesn't matter that the musician is
only claiming $30,000 in damages.

4. D  If  an  action  that  is  brought  in  state  court  could  have  originally  been
brought in federal court, it can be removed to federal court under 28
U.S.C.  §1441(a).  Only  defendants  can  remove,  and  if  there  is  more
than  one  defendant,  all  defendants  must  consent  to  the  removal.
However,  if  federal  jurisdiction  is  based  only  on  diversity,  a  case
cannot be removed to federal court if one of the defendants is a citizen
of  the  state  in  which  the  case  was  originally  brought.  Here,  although
the  man  could  have  brought  the  case  in  federal  court  based  on
diversity, the truck driver is a citizen of State B, where the state action
was  brought.  Consequently,  the  case  cannot  be  removed  to  federal
court. Therefore, A and B are incorrect.

C  is  incorrect  because  actions  with  jurisdiction  based  on  diversity
can also be removed to federal court, not simply actions based on a
federal question.

5.  B  When  exercising  jurisdiction  based  on  diversity,  a  federal  court  is
required to apply the substantive law of the state in which it is sitting.
Here, the federal court is sitting in State B.

A is incorrect because the plaintiff does not get to choose which laws
the  federal  court  will  follow  simply  because  he  or  she  brought  the
claim. C is incorrect because choice of law issues are not based upon
what state the claim arose in. D is incorrect because although there is
federal common law, federal courts cannot use federal common law
to decide state law claims.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

6.  A  For  diversity  jurisdiction  to  be  proper  under  28  U.S.C.  §1332,  the
amount  in  controversy  must  be  in  excess  of  $75,000,  exclusive  of
interest  and  costs.  In  meeting  the  jurisdictional  threshold,  all  of  the
plaintiff's  claims  against  a  single  defendant  can  be  aggregated.  Here,
the woman's three claims total $80,000, so the jurisdictional amount is
met.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  federal  court's  jurisdiction  can  be
challenged at any time, not just at the time the complaint is filed. C is
incorrect  because  the  amount  in  controversy  is  determined  by  the
plaintiff's complaint, not by what is actually awarded. D is incorrect

68

because  the  woman  could  aggregate  all  of  her  claims  against  the
contractor.

7. D The federal rules generally require only that a complaint put the other
side on notice of the claim and they generally do not require detailed
assertions  of  the  facts  underlying  the  claim.  However,  under  Bell
Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544 (2007) and Ashcroft v. Iqbal,
556  U.S.  662  (2009)  the  facts  in  the  complaint  need  to  support  a
plausible claim, not just a possible one.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

8.  A  During  voir  dire,  potential  jurors  are  asked  questions  to  determine
whether  they  have  some  potential  bias  in  the  case.  If  questioning
reveals  a  juror  is  biased,  the  juror  may  be  excused  for  cause.  There
are two types of biases. An actual bias is when a juror indicates he or
she would use predetermined beliefs or principles instead of the facts
presented to determine a case. Implied bias is when it is very likely an
average  person  in  the  same  position  as  the  juror  would  be  partial  to
one of the parties. Even if the juror states he or she can still be fair and
impartial,  he  or  she  must  be  excused  from  the  case.  Here,  since  the
juror's  boss  is  one  of  the  parties,  bias  can  be  implied  and  the  juror
should be excused. Therefore, C and D are incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  facts  state  an  implied  bias,  not  an  actual
one.

9. B Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 4, service is proper if the service is (i) personal,
(ii)  left  at  the  defendant's  usual  place  of  abode  with  a  person  of
suitable  age  and  discretion  who  resides  therein,  or  (iii)  served  upon
the  defendant's  authorized  agent.  Here,  since  the  sister  is  an  adult
living  with  the  producer  at  his  home,  and  there  is  no  indication  she
does not have suitable discretion, leaving the complaint with her at the
producer's home is proper.

A  and  C  are  incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication  either  the
assistant or the members of the executive team are acting as agents for
the producer, whatever their job titles may be. D is incorrect because
the simple fact the producer and his wife are married would not make
service of process on the wife proper.

10. C Under Erie Railroad v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938), a federal court
in  a  diversity  case  must  apply  the  substantive  law  of  the  state  in
which it is sitting, but it follows federal procedural law. The United

69

States  Supreme  Court  has  ruled  that  statutes  of  limitations  are
substantive  law  when  determining  whether  to  apply  federal  or  state
rules.  See  Guaranty  Trust  Co.  v.  York,  326  U.S.  99  (1945).
Consequently, the federal court must follow the statute of limitations
rules of State B.

A is  incorrect  because  statutes  of  limitation  are  substantive  law  for
Erie  purposes.  B  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  rule  stating  that
federal  courts  will  follow  federal  common  law  in  determining  an
appropriate  statute  of  limitations.  D  is  incorrect  because  federal
courts  may  apply  federal  procedural  law,  so  this  statement  is  too
broad to be correct.

11.  C  When  determining  state  law,  the  federal  court  must  apply  the
substantive law that would be applied by the state's highest court. If
the  state  law  is  unsettled,  the  federal  court  may  determine  what  the
highest  court  of  the  state  would  likely  do  if  faced  with  the  issue.
Importantly,  federal  courts  of  appeal  review  the  district  courts'
decisions  as  to  unsettled  state  law  de  novo.  Therefore,  since  the
district court was determining state law, the court of appeals should
not have deferred to the district court's decision.

A is incorrect because deferral to the district court's decision would
still  be  incorrect  even  if  the  law  is  substantive.  B  is  incorrect
because  the  court  of  appeals  should  not  defer  to  the  district  court's
decision  simply  because  it  sits  in  the  same  state  the  claim  was
brought  in.  D  is  incorrect  because  although  the  federal  court  could
have abstained from hearing the state law claim or possibly certified
the issue to the state courts to obtain a ruling, it could also have made
a determination itself regarding how the state courts would rule.

12. C If a defendant files a pre-answer motion to dismiss and does not raise
personal  jurisdiction  in  that  motion,  the  defendant  waives  any
objection  to  personal  jurisdiction.  Here,  the  company  should  have
asserted this defense in its first response to the complaint.

While it is true that under Hanson v. Denckla, 357 U.S. 235 (1958), a
defendant must purposefully avail himself or herself of the privilege
of  conducting  activities  within  the  forum  state,  and  that  this  can  be
shown  through  a  defendant's  attempts  to  make  money  in  the  state  or
use its roads, the issue here is that the company did not claim lack of
personal  jurisdiction  in  its  first  response.  Therefore,  C  is  the  best

70

answer and A is incorrect. While exercise of jurisdiction should be
fair  and  reasonable,  the  issue  here  is  the  company's  mistake  in  not
bringing  up  the  issue  immediately.  Therefore,  B  is  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect  because  merely  putting  a  product  into  the  stream  of
commerce without more is not enough for personal jurisdiction.

13. A  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  12(b)(6),  a  court  will  dismiss  a  claim  if  the
complaint  contains  an  allegation  that  negates  one  of  the  elements  of
the cause of action. False imprisonment is an intentional tort, and the
contractor's  complaint  states  he  was  locked  in  the  storage  room
through  an  employee's  negligence.  Consequently,  the  allegation  of
negligence negates the intent necessary for a successful claim of false
imprisonment, and the court should dismiss the claim.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  amount  in  controversy  requirement  for
diversity jurisdiction requires a good faith allegation of damages, not
probability of those damages being awarded. C is incorrect because
although  a  complaint  should  put  the  defendant  on  notice,  the  issue
here is that the complaint itself negates one of the elements of a false
imprisonment  claim.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  issue  here  is  the
failure  of  the  complaint  to  state  a  claim,  not  whether  the  amount  in
controversy requirement was met.

14. D Federal courts have subject matter jurisdiction based on diversity so
long  as  no  plaintiff  is  a  citizen  of  the  same  state  as  any  defendant.
Citizenship of the parties is determined on the date the suit is filed. If
a  person  moves  to  a  state  and  intends  to  stay  there  indefinitely,  the
person becomes a citizen of that new state. Here, at the time of filing,
the  man  had  moved  to  State  B  and  intended  to  stay  there  for  the
foreseeable  future.  Consequently,  the  man  was  a  citizen  of  State  B
when the action was filed, meaning both the doctor and the man were
citizens of the same state.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

15. A Most states have long arm statutes that grant in personam jurisdiction
over nonresidents in certain situations. However, even if a state has
such a long arm statute, the constitutionality of that jurisdiction must
still be determined. In a similar scenario to the situation posed by the
question,  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  ruled  in  McGee  v.
International  Insurance  Co.,  355  U.S.  220  (1957)  that  the  forum
state's strong interest in protecting its citizens from the potential bad

71

acts of insurance companies gave the forum state personal jurisdiction
over the out-of-state insurance company. Importantly, the court noted
the company renewed the insurance policy in question with the forum
state resident and continued to accept premiums from the forum state
resident. Consequently, A is the best answer choice, and C and D are
incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  the  policy  was  originally  purchased
online would not change the analysis.

16. B If an action brought in a state court could have originally been brought
in  federal  court,  a  defendant  can  have  it  removed  to  federal  court
under  28  U.S.C.  §1441.  Federal  courts  have  subject  matter
jurisdiction over claims where the plaintiff and defendant are citizens
of  different  states  and  the  amount  in  controversy  is  over  $75,000.
Here, the truck driver is claiming $200,000 in damages, so the amount
in  controversy  is  met.  Also,  the  truck  driver  is  a  citizen  of  State  A.
Consequently, federal jurisdiction will be appropriate so long as the
company is not a citizen of State A. The citizenship of a corporation
is any state where it is incorporated and the state where its principal
place  of  business  is  located.  A  corporation's  principal  place  of
business  is  the  place  where  the  corporation's  directors  and  top
management  direct  the  corporation's  business  activities.  See  Hertz
Corp.  v.  Friend,  559  U.S.  77  (2010).  While  the  company  does  a
significant  amount  of  business  in  State  A,  since  the  company  is
directed in State B, it will be deemed a citizen of State B for both its
place  of  incorporation  and  because  that's  where  the  decisions
regarding the company are made. Therefore, A and C are incorrect. D
is  incorrect  because  the  claim  can  still  be  removed  to  federal  court
even though it is based on state law.

17. A  Work  product  made  in  anticipation  of  litigation  is  privileged  and  is
not  discoverable  by  an  opposing  party  unless  that  party  makes  a
showing  of  substantial  need  and  undue  hardship  in  getting  the
materials  in  some  other  way.  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  26,  if  a  party
inadvertently discloses such material to the opposing party, he or she
can  notify  the  opposing  party  of  the  disclosure  and  the  basis  for
claiming work-product protection. If the disclosing party does so, the
other  party  cannot  use  the  material  until  the  court  makes  a
determination  regarding  the  validity  of  the  claim.  Therefore,  C  is
incorrect.

72

B  is  incorrect  because  the  attorney  does  not  need  to  ask  for  a
protective  order  to  claim  work-product  protection.  D  is  incorrect
because work product includes the draft reports of trial experts, and
any  final  report  intended  for  trial  is  likely  not  protected  as  work
product.

18.  C  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  37,  a  party  is  not  subject  to  sanctions  if  it
deletes  or  loses  electronically  stored  data  in  the  routine  and  good
faith operation of its electronic data systems. However, a party must
take  reasonable  steps  to  protect  the  data  once  it  becomes  clear  it
would be discoverable in litigation. Here, since the deletion was part
of  a  new,  routine  cost-saving  initiative,  and  there  was  no  indication
the  company  deleted  the  information  in  anticipation  of  litigation,  it
would  not  be  subject  to  any  sanctions,  such  as  paying  for  recovery
experts, for failing to produce the requested information.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  the  deletion  wasn't  a  mistake,  the
company  is  still  protected  by  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  37's  safe  harbor
provision for electronically stored data since the deletion occurred as
a  routine  part  of  maintaining  its  information  systems.  B  is  incorrect
because there is no rule stating that electronically stored data must be
absolutely unrecoverable before the safe harbor provision comes into
play.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  operative  question  is  whether  the
deletion  was  part  of  the  routine  and  good  faith  operation  of  the
information system, not whether the deletion itself was reasonable.

19. D The defense of lack of subject matter jurisdiction can be raised at any
time,  even  on  appeal.  However,  under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  12(b),
insufficient service of process, improper venue, and lack of personal
jurisdiction  must  be  raised  at  the  time  a  party  responds  to  the
complaint  either  by  filing  a  motion  or  an  an-swer.  Therefore,  A,  B,
and C are incorrect.

20.  A  In  determining  personal  jurisdiction,  International  Shoe  Co.  v.
Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945) established that a party must have
sufficient  minimum  contacts  with  a  state  that  it  would  be  fair  and
reasonable  for  the  state  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  that  party.  In
Snowney  v.  Harrah's  Entertainment  Inc.,  112  P.2d  28  (2006),  the
California court found that a hotel in Nevada that focused advertising
on  California  residents  through  billboards  and  its  Internet  site  was
subject to personal jurisdiction in California because it targeted and
solicited business from California residents.

73

B  is  incorrect  because  the  mere  fact  that  a  party  advertised  on  a
billboard located in a state would likely not be enough to subject it to
personal jurisdiction in that state. C is incorrect because although it
did not do any business in State B, the hotel did solicit business from
State  B  residents  by  using  a  billboard  in  State  B,  giving  driving
directions  from  State  B,  and  noting  its  proximity  to  State  B.  D  is
incorrect  because  personal  jurisdiction  is  not  based  on  where  the
injury at issue occurred.

21. D For a federal court to have subject matter jurisdiction over a claim,
the amount in controversy must exceed $75,000. While aggregation of
separate  claims  is  allowed  in  the  case  of  a  single  plaintiff  suing  a
single  defendant,  aggregation  is  not  allowed  in  the  case  of  several
plaintiffs  against  one  defendant  (unless  the  plaintiffs  are  seeking  to
enforce  a  single  title  or  right  in  which  they  share  an  undivided
interest). In the case of class actions, the claims of the separate class
members  cannot  be  aggregated  if  their  claims  are  not  joint  or
common.  Here,  the  claims  all  involve  different  shares  of  company
stock,  so  the  claims  are  not  joint  or  common.  In  that  case,  the  court
would only have subject matter jurisdiction over the claim if one of
the  claims  exceeded  $75,000.  Here,  there  is  no  indication  that  one
does.

Importantly, although the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 loosened
certain  jurisdictional  requirements  for  some  class  actions,  the  Act
only applies when there are at least 100 proposed members in a class
and the aggregate amount in controversy exceeds $5 million dollars.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

22.  D  Federal  courts  will  not  take  jurisdiction  over  claims  involving  the
issuance  of  a  divorce,  alimony,  or  a  child  custody  decree.  See
Akenbrandt  v.  Richards,  504  U.S.  689  (1992).  Here,  the  man  is
seeking custody of the children and alimony.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  there  is  apparently  diversity  of
citizenship, the issue is that the man is seeking custody and alimony.
B is incorrect because although the children were born in State A and
now reside in State B, this does not create any kind of special federal
jurisdiction over the claim. C is incorrect because the issue is not that
the  divorce  was  granted  by  State  A,  it's  that  the  man  is  asking  the
federal court to make a decision regarding custody and alimony.

74

23.  A  28  U.S.C.  §1332(a)(2)  grants  subject  matter  jurisdiction  over  any
dispute  between  a  citizen  of  a  U.S.  state  and  a  citizen  of  a  foreign
country. Here, the question states that the student is an Irish citizen, so
the federal court has subject matter jurisdiction over his claim.

B is incorrect because although the amount in controversy is met, the
specific issue presented by the question is that the student is a citizen
of a foreign country. If the student had been a citizen of a U.S. state
other than State A, B would have been an appropriate answer. C is
incorrect  because  all  claims  brought  by  a  single  plaintiff  against  a
single  defendant  can  be  aggregated  for  the  purpose  of  meeting  the
amount  in  controversy  requirement.  D  is  incorrect  because  subject
matter jurisdiction is not dependent upon a defendant's consent to suit.

24. C If a counterclaim arises out of the same transaction or occurrence as
the  plaintiff's  claim,  it  is  a  compulsory  counterclaim  that  must  be
asserted  by  the  defendant.  Otherwise,  the  counterclaim  is  barred.
Here,  since  the  woman's  claim  arises  out  of  the  same  automobile
accident,  it  was  a  compulsory  counterclaim  that  had  to  be  raised  at
during the first action.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  the  man  sued  in  federal  court  in  the
first  action  involving  the  accident  would  not  automatically  confer
jurisdiction  to  federal  courts  for  subsequent  actions  involving  the
accident. B is incorrect because, although citizenship is determined at
the time the suit is filed, the issue here is the fact the woman should
have  brought  her  injury  claim  as  a  compulsory  counterclaim.  D  is
incorrect  because  res  judicata  applies  to  situations  where  the  same
cause  of  action  is  brought  by  the  same  plaintiff  against  the  same
defendant. Here, the woman's claim would turn her into the plaintiff
and the man into the defendant, so res judicata would not apply.

25. D Fed. R. Civ. P. 38 requires a party who desires a jury trial on a fact
issue  to  file  a  written  demand  with  the  court  and  serve  it  on  the
opposing  party  within  14  days  after  the  service  of  the  last  pleading
directed  to  that  issue.  Once  a  jury  demand  is  made,  it  cannot  be
withdrawn  unless  all  parties  consent  to  the  withdrawal.  Here,  since
the  company  opposes  withdrawal,  the  court  should  deny  the  man's
motion.

A is incorrect because the mere fact the man made the original jury
demand does not give him free reign to withdrawal it. B and  C  are

75

incorrect because the question of whether withdrawal is appropriate
is not dictated by when the withdrawal is made.

26. C In its decision in Jones v. Flowers, 547 U.S. 220 (2006), the United
States  Supreme  Court  ruled  that  the  Fourteenth  Amendment's  Due
Process Clause requires the government to take additional reasonable
steps after mailed notice of a pending action is returned undelivered.
Although  the  Federal  Rules  do  not  require  actual  notice,  a  party
cannot proceed with his or her claim if he or she knows the opposing
party  did  not  receive  notice  and  there  are  practical  alternatives  to
informing the opposing party (such as remailing the notice or posting
it on the property's door). Here, since the state took no further action
to  try  to  notify  the  homeowner  before  selling  the  property,  the  state
violated the homeowner's due process rights.

A and B are incorrect because the state took no further action to try to
notify the homeowner after the letter was returned undelivered. D is
incorrect  because  the  notice  issue  is  not  affected  by  when  the
property was actually put up for sale.

27. A When a court believes a jury award is excessive, remittitur allows a
court to offer a plaintiff the choice of a reduced award or a new trial.
If the suit is in federal court based on diversity jurisdiction, the court
can  look  at  whether  the  award  meets  the  state  standard  for
excessiveness.

B  is  incorrect  because  a  court  cannot  simply  reduce  a  jury  award
without  giving  a  plaintiff  the  option  of  a  new  trial.  See  Hetzel  v.
Prince William County, 523 U.S. 208 (1998). C is incorrect because
the award does not necessarily have to “shock the conscience.” If the
federal  court  is  sitting  in  diversity,  the  court  can  look  to  the  state
standard.  D  is  incorrect  because  remittitur  does  not  violate  the
Seventh  Amendment  (however,  additur,  or  offering  a  defendant  the
choice  between  a  higher  award  or  a  new  trial  when  damages  are
inadequate, does).

28. B A judgment is void only when there was a fundamental flaw such as a
lack of jurisdiction or a party's deprivation of his or her due process
rights through failure to give notice or an opportunity to be heard. See
United Student Aid Funds, Inc. v. Espinosa, 559 U.S. 260 (2010).

While  parties  can  be  relieved  from  final  judgments  based  on  new
evidence  or  fraud,  such  situations  do  not  make  the  judgment  void.

76

Therefore, A and C are incorrect. Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 60(a), courts
can correct clerical errors at any time, and such errors do not make a
judgment void. Therefore, D is incorrect.

29. B Federal courts have subject matter jurisdiction over claims based on
federal  law.  Here,  since  the  owner's  claim  is  based  on  federal
the  federal  court  would  have  subject  matter
trucking 
jurisdiction.

laws, 

A  is  incorrect  because  questions  of  interstate  commerce  do  not
necessarily involve questions of federal law. C is incorrect because
there is no amount in controversy requirement for federal claims. D is
incorrect  because  the  citizenship  of  the  parties  is  irrelevant  if  the
claim is based on federal law.

30.  A  A  notice  of  deposition  is  sufficient  to  compel  the  deposition

appearance of an adverse party.

B is incorrect because a party does not have to show substantial need
in order to depose a witness or adverse party. C is incorrect because
subpoenas  are  only  necessary  if  the  witness  to  be  deposed  is  not  a
party to the lawsuit. D is incorrect because the likelihood of a party's
testimony  at  trial  does  not  affect  whether  or  not  that  party  may  be
compelled to attend a deposition.

31. B Appellate courts review mixed questions of law and fact de novo. In
general,  whether  a  situation  meets  a  legal  standard  is  a  mixed
question of law and fact. However, you do not need to know whether
the issue presented here is a matter of law, question of fact, or mixed
question  of  law  and  fact  to  get  the  correct  answer.  Importantly,  the
other  three  answer  choices  are  incorrect  because  they  pair  an
incorrect legal question with each standard.

A is  incorrect  because  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  52(a)(6)  states  that  a  court's
findings regarding questions of fact are not disturbed unless they are
“clearly erroneous.” C is incorrect because abuse of discretion is the
standard  applied  to  a  trial  court's  decisions  regarding  discretionary
matters,  such  as  leaves  to  amend.  D  is  incorrect  because  matters  of
law are reviewed de novo.

32. C If a party receives no notice and is not represented in a prior party's
unsuccessful  litigation,  that  party  is  not  barred  from  asserting  the
same  claim  in  a  subsequent  lawsuit.  See  Richards  v.  Jefferson

77

County, 517 U.S. 793 (1996).

Res  judicata  applies  only  in  situations  where  the  first  and  second
cases  are  brought  by  the  same  plaintiff  against  the  same  defendant.
Therefore, A  is  incorrect.  Claim  preclusion  is  another  term  for  res
judicata. Therefore, B is incorrect. D is incorrect because under the
circumstances  the  fact  the  second  claim  is  being  brought  as  a  class
action has no bearing on whether the second claim is barred.

33. C A party can request a temporary restraining order when an injury will
occur before the grant of a preliminary injunction. Consequently, the
correct  order  for  such  actions  is  temporary  restraining  order  first,
preliminary  injunction  second.  In  addition,  a  preliminary  injunction
cannot be issued without notice to the adverse party.

To  receive  an  ex  parte  temporary  restraining  order,  a  party  must
provide  security  in  case  the  adverse  party  is  wrongfully  restrained,
certify  efforts  to  notify  the  adverse  party,  and  state  specific  facts
showing  the  party  will  suffer  immediate  and  irreparable  injury.
Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

34.  B  If  an  action  involves  a  “potentially  disruptive  effect  on  maritime
commerce” and the activity giving rise to the action has a “substantial
relationship  to  traditional  maritime  activity,”  federal  courts  have
original  jurisdiction  over  the  action  because  of  its  maritime  nexus.
See Jerome B. Grubart, Inc. v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., 513
U.S. 527 (1995). Here, the turbine wreckage has shut down the harbor
for  several  weeks,  and  made  it  inaccessible  to  the  fishing  fleet.
Consequently, it appears to have the necessary connection to maritime
activity, making B the best answer.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  mere  fact  an  action  involves  interstate
commerce  is  not  enough  to  give  a  federal  court  subject  matter
jurisdiction.  C  is  incorrect  because  this  action  can  be  brought  into
federal  court  based  on  its  relationship  to  maritime  activity,  making
the  citizenship  of  the  opposing  parties  irrelevant.  D  is  incorrect
because  there  is  no  minimum  offshore  mileage  requirement  for  an
action to arise under maritime law.

35. D Under the rule provided in Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318
U.S.  360  (1943),  the  federal  courts  are  allowed  to  make  federal
common law when the rights and obligations of the United States are
at issue. Here, since the action is based on the federal government's

78

obligations  to  pay  on  its  check,  the  federal  court  would  use  federal
common law to make its determination. Therefore, B is incorrect.

Although Erie Railroad v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938)  found  that
federal courts cannot make federal common law when ruling on state
law claims, federal courts are allowed to make federal common law
when  dealing  with  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  United  States.
Therefore, A is incorrect. C is incorrect because the deciding issue
here is not whether the rule is substantive or procedural, but that the
rights  and  obligations  of  the  United  States  are  being  determined  by
the court.

36. A  Under  28  U.S.C.  §1391,  venue  is  proper  in  (a)  the  judicial  district
where any defendant resides, so long as all defendants are residents
of  the  state  in  which  the  district  is  located;  (b)  a  judicial  district
where  a  substantial  part  of  the  events  giving  rise  to  the  claim
occurred; or, (c) if no district in the United States satisfies either (a)
or (b), a judicial district where any defendant is subject to the court's
personal jurisdiction in regards to such action. Here, since not all the
defendants are citizens of the same state, the only appropriate venue
would be the Eastern District of State B, where the accident occurred.

Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.

37. C  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  12(e),  if  a  party  finds  that  a  complaint  is  so
vague  or  ambiguous  that  the  party  cannot  reasonably  frame  a
response, the party may move for a more definite statement. However,
such  a  motion  must  be  made  before  the  party  responds  by  filing  an
answer or other reply.

A  is  incorrect  because  lack  of  subject  matter  jurisdiction  can  be
raised  at  any  time,  even  on  appeal.  B  and  D  are  incorrect  because
they  can  be  raised  at  the  time  the  party  files  a  motion  or  his  or  her
answer.

38. D  If  a  Rule  12  motion  is  not  made,  a  defendant  who  was  mailed  the
complaint  and  who  waived  formal  service  must  answer  within  60
days after the request for waiver was mailed. If a defendant is served
formally  with  a  summons  and  complaint,  he  or  she  must  answer
within 21 days after service. If the court grants a motion for a more
definite statement, the answer is due within 14 days. Therefore, A, B,
and C are incorrect.

79

39. D Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b), a defendant can make a motion to dismiss
for  failure  to  state  a  claim  upon  which  relief  can  be  granted.  This
means  that  even  if  all  of  the  plaintiff's  allegations  are  true,  there  is
still  no  claim  for  which  the  court  can  grant  relief.  Here,  even  if  the
man is correct that the movie is so terrible that it ruins the franchise
for him, this would not entitle him to any type of judicial relief. If the
franchise  owners  are  granted  this  motion,  they  will  not  need  to  file
any type of answer to the complaint.

A is incorrect because the issue here is not that the complaint is too
vague,  the  issue  is  that  hating  a  terrible  movie  does  not  create  any
kind of legal action for the viewer. B is incorrect because a motion
for  summary  judgment  requires  the  court  to  look  at  all  the  evidence
presented  by  the  parties.  Here,  the  matter  can  be  deposed  of  much
more quickly with a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim. C
is incorrect because declaratory judgments are used to determine the
rights and status of the parties involved in a case, and such a ruling
does  not  require  that  any  action  be  taken.  Here,  the  issue  is  that  the
man is suing because he hates a movie, which is not something he can
be  granted  relief  for,  so  the  court  should  just  dismiss  his  claim
without requiring the parties to do anything else.

40. B If jurisdiction is based on a question of federal law, the federal court
will  also  have  jurisdiction  over  state  law  claims  arising  from  the
same case or controversy. See Hurn v. Oursler, 289 U.S. 238 (1933).
Here,  both  the  federal  and  state  claims  arise  from  the  playwright
putting on the play in State A.

A  is  incorrect  because  it  is  unclear  whether  the  federal  claim  is
actually  a  prerequisite  to  the  state  claim.  In  any  event,  it  would  not
matter since both claims arise out of the same case or controversy. C
is  incorrect  because,  as  stated  above,  the  federal  court  would  have
supplemental or pendent jurisdiction over the state law claim because
it is part of the same controversy as the federal claim. D is incorrect
because  the  mere  fact  a  claim  might  be  governed  by  state  law  does
not remove that claim from potential federal jurisdiction.

41. D  Under  28  U.S.C.  §1446(b),  an  action  cannot  be  removed  to  federal
court  based  on  diversity  more  than  one  year  after  the  action  was
commenced  in  state  court.  Here,  the  claim  became  removable  when
the  model  dismissed  his  claim  against  the  lawyer  because  the
opposing parties are now citizens of different states. However, a year

80

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

has already passed since the beginning of the action in state court, so
it cannot now be removed.

A  case  must  be  removed  no  later  than  30  days  after  the  defendant
discovers the case is removable. However, because of the one-year
rule, A, B, and C are incorrect.

42. C Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 9, a complaint only needs to provide a short and
plain  statement  of  the  claim.  The  Federal  Rules  only  require
heightened and more specific pleading when the claim involves fraud,
mistake,  or  special  damages.  Here, 
the  man's  employment
discrimination claim would not need to meet the heightened pleading
requirements,  and  the  federal  courts  cannot  require  more  specific
pleading  outside  the  narrow  group  of  situations  provided  for  in  the
Rules.  See  Swierkiewicz  v.  Sorema  N.A.,  534  U.S.  506  (2002).
Therefore, A is incorrect.

B is incorrect because not all federal questions require more specific
pleading.  D  is  incorrect  because  this  answer  choice  refers  to  the
standard required under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b) for a motion to dismiss
for failure to state a claim.

43. A  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  22  and  28  U.S.C.  §1335, a  person  who  is  in
possession of property claimed by more than one party (known as a
“stakeholder”) can file an interpleader action to require the property
claimants  to  litigate  amongst  themselves  to  determine  who  owns  the
property. In this way, the stakeholder can avoid liability.

B  is  incorrect  because  a  declaratory  judgment  is  generally  used  to
determine the rights, duties, or obligations of parties without ordering
any  action  or  awarding  damages. C  is  incorrect  because  impleader
refers to the ability of a party to bring a non-party into the action if
that  non-party  may  be  liable  for  any  part  of  the  judgment.  D  is
incorrect  because  intervention  of  right  refers  to  when  a  non-party
claims  an  interest  in  the  subject  matter  of  an  action  and  demands  to
join the action.

44. C Under 28 U.S.C. §1404, for the convenience of parties or witnesses,
the  federal  district  court  may  transfer  a  civil  action  to  any  other
district  or  division  where  the  action  might  have  been  brought  or  to
any district or division to which all of the parties have consented. If a
transfer is made purely on the grounds of convenience, the transferee
court will apply the law that would have been applied in the original

81

court. See Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612 (1964). Consequently,
the State A court will apply the law of State B.

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

45.  A  Joint  tortfeasors  with  potential  joint-and-several  liability  are
permissive parties to an action. Consequently, they are not “necessary
and indispensable” parties subject to compulsory joinder under Fed.
R.  Civ.  P.  19.  See  Temple  v.  Synthes  Corp.,  498  U.S.  5  (1990).
Therefore,  the  federal  case  should  not  be  dismissed  simply  because
the woman failed to join the doctor and the hospital.

B is incorrect because the mere fact that the doctor and hospital are
potential defendants does not make them subject to Fed. R. Civ. P. 19.
C is incorrect because the United States Supreme Court has held that
joint  tortfeasors  are  not  necessary  and  indispensable  parties.  D  is
incorrect  because  the  fact  the  doctor  and  hospital  are  likely  jointly
and  severally  liable  does  not  make  them  parties  necessary  for  the
federal adjudication.

46. A A pleading cannot be amended if the amendment violates a party's due
process  rights.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  ruled  that
amending a pleading and simultaneously making the new party liable
violates due process because the new party does not have a chance to
respond before the entry of judgment against him or her. See Nelson v.
Adams USA, Inc., 529 U.S. 460 (2000).

B is incorrect because a pleading can be amended for other reasons
besides  the  discovery  of  new  evidence.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
mere fact that the president was president and sole shareholder of the
cellphone  company  would  not  automatically  make  him  personally
liable  for  the  cellphone  company's  liability.  D  is  incorrect  because
although  his  actions  are  chargeable  to  the  cellphone  company,  this
does  not  mean  he  had  a  chance  to  contest  his  potential  personal
liability.

47. B Issue preclusion (also known as collateral estoppel) bars a party from
re-litigating  issues  that  were  actually  litigated  and  necessary  for  the
judgment in the first action. Here, since the man was unsuccessful in
his negligence claim against the carpenter, who was primarily liable
for  his  alleged  negligence,  he  cannot  now  re-litigate  the  same  claim
against  the  company,  who  was  secondarily  liable  for  the  alleged
negligence.

82

A  is  incorrect  because  res  judicata  usually  applies  to  a  situation
where  the  same  claimant  is  suing  the  same  defendant  for  the  same
cause  of  action.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  doctrine  of  respondeat
superior  does  not  address  the  fact  that  the  issue  of  the  carpenter's
negligence was already litigated. D is incorrect because even though
the man did not sue the company in the prior action, this fact does not
mean the man can now sue the company.

48. A A motion for judgment as a matter of law is made before the case is
submitted  to  a  jury  and  asks  the  court  for  judgment  in  the  moving
party's favor based on the argument that no reasonable person could
come to a different conclusion. A renewed motion for judgment as a
matter of law comes after entry of judgment and can only be made if
the  moving  party  made  a  motion  for  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law
during the trial. A motion for a new trial is made after judgment and
may be granted because of trial error, juror misconduct, or problems
with the verdict.

The United States Supreme Court has ruled that if a party wishes to
raise the issue of the sufficiency of the evidence on appeal, the party
making  the  appeal  must  have  already  moved  for  either  a  renewed
judgment  as  a  matter  of  law  or  a  new  trial.  See  Unitherm  Food
Systems, Inc. v. Swift-Eckrich, Inc., 546 U.S. 394 (2006). Therefore,
B, C, and D are incorrect.

49. A  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  4,  service  is  proper  if  (a)  a  party  is  served
personally, (b) service is left at the defendant's usual place of abode
with  a  person  of  suitable  age  and  discretion  who  resides  within,  or
(c) service is made upon the defendant's authorized agent. Service can
be made by any person who is at least 18 years old and is not a party
to  the  action.  Consequently,  the  plaintiff  could  not  personally  serve
the defendant.

B is incorrect because service may be made by a U.S. Marshal at a
party's request and it is likely an executive officer of the company is
an  authorized  agent  of  the  company.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
process server is at least 18 years old, and the defendant's daughter
likely  resides  at  the  defendant's  home.  D  is  incorrect  because  the
process  server  is  over  18  years  of  age  and  the  18-year-old  renter
resides in the defendant's home.

50. D  Oral  depositions  are  governed  by  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  30.  They  can  be

83

taken over the telephone or by other electronic means.

A is incorrect because leave of the court or stipulation of the parties
is required to depose the same person more than once. B is incorrect
because a deposition cannot be longer than “one day of seven hours”
without leave of the court or stipulation of the parties. C is incorrect
because a party cannot take more than 10 depositions without leave
of the court or stipulation of the parties.

51. C  Under  the  discovery  rules  in  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  26(b)(1),  a  party  must
provide “any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim
or  defense.”  Additionally,  information  “need  not  be  admissible  in
evidence”  if  it  is  likely  to  lead  to  the  discovery  of  admissible
evidence.  Consequently, 
the
memorandum to the student. Therefore, A is incorrect.

should  provide 

the  university 

B is incorrect because work product is material made in anticipation
of  litigation.  Here,  the  memorandum  was  written  several  years
earlier. D  is  incorrect  because  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  student  to
show it is impossible for him to obtain the information in any other
way.

52.  C  Although  claims  that  fail  to  meet  the  amount  in  controversy
requirement  of  $75,000  can  be  heard  based  on  supplemental
jurisdiction if they arise from a common nucleus of fact, supplemental
jurisdiction does not override the rules regarding complete diversity
of  citizenship.  Here,  the  woman  is  a  citizen  of  State  B,  and  the
company  is  incorporated  in  State  B,  so  the  court  would  not  have
subject  matter  jurisdiction  over  the  claim  because  both  the  woman
and  the  company  are  citizens  of  the  same  state.  Importantly,  a
corporation  is  a  citizen  of  both  the  state  in  which  it  is  incorporated
and its primary place of business.

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

53. B Only defendants may remove an action to federal court. Here, since
the  artist  brought  the  action,  he  is  the  plaintiff  and  cannot  request
removal.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  writer's  counterclaim  is  a  compulsory
counterclaim since it arises from the same transaction or occurrence.
C is incorrect because the fact the plaintiff is now facing a claim for
over  $75,000  would  not  allow  the  plaintiff  to  remove  the  case  to

84

federal  court.  Additionally,  the  fact  the  defendant's  counterclaim  is
compulsory  would  not  allow  the  plaintiff  to  remove  an  action  to
federal court. Therefore, D is incorrect.

54. C Except for certain interlocutory orders such as injunctions, only final
decisions  are  reviewable  by  an  appellate  court.  In  Cunningham  v.
Hamilton  County,  527  U.S.  198  (1999),  the  United  States  Supreme
Court found that an order imposing sanctions on an attorney was not a
final decision regarding the case despite the fact the attorney was no
longer involved in the litigation. Therefore, B is incorrect.

A is incorrect because the collateral order doctrine refers to a narrow
exception  to  the  final  decision  rule  that  allows  parties  to  appeal
certain interlocutory rulings without waiting for a final decision. D is
incorrect  because  there  has  not  been  a  final  decision  in  the  case.
Consequently,  the  appellate  court's  inability  to  hear  the  appeal  was
not simply discretionary.

55.  C  Under  28  U.S.C.  §1738,  a  federal  court  must  give  state  court
judgments  the  same  effect  as  the  state  itself  would  give  to  the
judgment. In regards to issue preclusion, this rule applies in all but a
few  narrow  situations  delineated  by  Congress.  Here,  since  State  A
would  allow  the  judgment  to  be  used  this  way,  the  federal  district
court in State B must do so as well.

A is incorrect because this question does not focus on what law the
federal court should apply, but on what effect the State A state court
judgment  should  have  in  the  woman's  litigation.  B  is  incorrect
because issue preclusion does not require the woman to be a party to
the  first  lawsuit.  D  is  incorrect  because  res  judicata  and  issue
preclusion are two different legal concepts, and this answer choice is
simply lumping them together.

56. A  If  a  plaintiff  raises  a  federal  question,  a  defendant  may  remove  the
action to federal court even if that defendant is a citizen of the state in
which the claim was originally brought. This differs from the rule for
an  action  that  may  be  removed  to  federal  court  based  on  diversity
jurisdiction.  In  that  case,  if  the  defendant  is  a  citizen  of  the  state
where the action was brought, he or she cannot remove the action to
federal  court.  Here,  because  the  man's  claim  raised  a  federal
question, any issue regarding the removal's appropriateness based on
diversity  jurisdiction  is  irrelevant.  Therefore,  B,  C,  and  D  are

85

incorrect.

57. D Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(e)(1), if a party learns that a response to an
interrogatory was materially incomplete or incorrect, that party must
supplement  or  correct  the  response.  Here,  the  response  was
materially incorrect regarding the time, place, and person who fired
the man from his position.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  responding  party's  duty  to  correct  the
response  is  not  dependent  upon  the  other  party  challenging  the
answer. B  is  incorrect  because  even  though  the  company  seemed  to
have answered the question in good faith, this would not relieve it of
the duty to amend the response once it discovered it was incorrect. C
is  incorrect  because  whether  the  response  was  based  on  the
president's personal knowledge is immaterial to the question.

58.  A  In  Keeton  v.  Hustler  Magazine,  465  U.S.  770  (1984),  the  United
States Supreme Court ruled that a state had personal jurisdiction over
a  defendant  magazine  for  a  libel  suit  because  the  magazine  sold
10,000  copies  per  month  in  that  state.  This  was  true  even  though
neither the plaintiff nor the defendant were citizens of the forum state
or  had  any  other  contacts  with  the  forum  state.  Importantly,  by
exploiting  the  state's  market,  the  Court  found  the  magazine  should
have  reasonably  anticipated  “being  haled  into  court  there  in  a  libel
action  based  on  the  contents  of  its  magazine.”  Therefore,  D  is
incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  mere  fact  State  C  was  the  only  state  in
which  the  statute  of  limitations  had  not  yet  run  out  would  not  give
State C jurisdiction over the claim. C is incorrect because the fact the
woman  did  not  have  much  contact  with  the  state  would  not  affect
whether the state had personal jurisdiction over the rival magazine.

59. D Under 28 U.S.C. §1406(a), if a case is filed in an improper venue, the
court  may  transfer  the  case  to  any  district  or  division  it  could  have
been brought in “if it be in the interest of justice.” Consequently, if the
court  believes  dismissing 
the
motorcyclist, it can transfer the case to the proper district.

the  case  would  be  unfair 

to 

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  this  rule  applies  even  though  the
federal  district  court  does  not  have  proper  jurisdiction  over  the
claim.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  dismissal  would  lead  to  an
unfair result does not give the federal district court jurisdiction.

86

60. B  A  subpoena  for  a  deposition  may  command  a  witness  who  is  not  a
party to the lawsuit to attend a deposition that is “within 100 miles of
where the person resides, is employed, or regularly transacts business
in person.” See Fed. R. Civ. P. 45(c). Here, since the tenant lives 500
miles away, he cannot be compelled to attend.

The  issue  here  is  that  the  attorney  can  depose  the  tenant,  she  just
needs  to  travel  to  State  B  to  do  it.  A  is  incorrect  because  the
fireman's attorney can subpoena the witness to attend a deposition in
State B even if she is not licensed in State B. C is incorrect because
if  she  wants  the  deposition,  she  can  travel  to  State  B  to  get  it.  D  is
incorrect because it doesn't matter that the attorney is willing to pay
the costs of the tenant's travel.

61. D In Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 U.S. 1(1991), the United States Supreme
Court found that a statute allowing prejudgment attachment without a
showing  of  extraordinary  circumstances  violated  the  Due  Process
Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  In  determining  the  process
necessary before a state can deprive a person of his or her property
through  a  prejudgment  attachment,  courts  should  look  at  (1)  the
interest  that  will  be  affected,  (2)  the  risk  of  erroneous  deprivation,
and (3) the interest of the party seeking the prejudgment remedy. Here,
the  State  A  statute  allows  attachment  based  only  on  an  affidavit
provided  by  the  requesting  party,  which  creates  a  high  risk  of
erroneous deprivation.

A is incorrect because amount in controversy is an issue for subject
matter jurisdiction, which is not an issue created by this question. B
and C are incorrect because the Due Process issue in this case would
not be solved by a hearing after the attachment.

62. C Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 33(a), only parties to an action are required to
respond  to  interrogatories.  Non-party  witnesses  are  subject  to  being
deposed. Consequently, the truck driver does not need to answer the
interrogatories.

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

63. A  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  56(a),  summary  judgment  is  appropriate  only
when  “there  is  no  genuine  dispute  as  to  any  material  fact  and  the
movant  is  entitled  to  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law.”  Here,  since  the
court  believes  that  there  is  still  some  chance  that  the  man's  claim
might  be  valid,  it  would  be  inappropriate  for  the  court  to  grant

87

summary judgment.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  issue  here  isn't  the  sufficiency  of  the
evidence; it is whether there is no genuine dispute as to any material
fact. C is incorrect because the standard for summary judgment is not
focused  on  whether  the  non-moving  party  is  mistaken  or  lying.  D  is
incorrect  because  summary  judgment  is  only  appropriate  when  the
court believes that as a matter of law all issues should be decided in
the movant's favor.

64. D Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 11, when an attorney files a pleading, motion, or
other paper with the court, that attorney certifies that “after an inquiry
reasonable  under  the  circumstances  .  .  .  the  factual  contentions  have
evidentiary  support.”  If  an  attorney  violates  this  rule,  he  or  she  is
subject  to  sanctions.  Here,  since  the  attorney  did  not  do  any
investigation into the factual contentions regarding the banker's claim
(such  as  getting  the  police  report),  it  is  likely  the  company  could
move  for  Rule  11  sanctions  and  receive  a  court  order  requiring  the
attorney and/or the banker to pay the lost attorney's fees.

A is  incorrect  because  even  though  the  company  won  the  case,  this
does not fix the harm caused by the lost attorney's fees. B is incorrect
because  the  fee  agreement  between  the  company  and  its  attorney  is
not  at  issue.  C  is  incorrect  because  there  was  no  indication  the
banker's  attorney  was  acting  in  bad  faith,  so  they  did  not  conspire
together to commit fraud.

65. C Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 16, a court may order the attorneys to appear for
one  or  more  pretrial  conferences  for  several  reasons,  such  as
expediting  the  action,  discouraging  wasteful  pretrial  activities,  and
facilitating settlement. Importantly, under Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(c)(1), “if
appropriate, the court may require that a party or its representative be
present or reasonably available by other means to consider possible
settlement.” In fact, if the man fails to attend, he could be subject to
sanctions. Therefore, A and B are incorrect.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

D is incorrect because the fact the man is the plaintiff does not change
the analysis.

66.  D  If  a  party  believes  that  the  court  has  failed  to  give  a  proper  jury
instruction, Fed. R. Civ. P. 51(d) states that a party may assign error
to  “failure  to  give  an  instruction,  if  that  party  properly  requested  it
and—unless the court rejected the request in a definitive ruling on the

88

the  computer
record—also  properly  objected.”  Here,  since 
company's attorney did not object, the computer company waived its
right to the instruction.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

67.  A  If  a  party  has  “failed  to  plead  or  otherwise  defend,”  the  opposing
party  can  move  for  a  default  judgment  under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  55(a).
Generally,  a  defendant  must  serve  an  answer  “within  21  days  after
being  served  with  the  summons  and  complaint.” See  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.
12.

B is incorrect because a defendant has 60 days to respond if he or she
has waived service. Here, since there is no indication that the doctor
waived service, he would have had 21 days to respond. This makes
A the stronger answer. Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 4, service is proper if
(a) a party is served personally, (b) service is left at the defendant's
usual  place  of  abode  with  a  person  of  suitable  age  and  discretion
who  resides  within,  or  (c)  service  is  made  upon  the  defendant's
authorized  agent.  There  is  no  strict  age  requirement  regarding  who
service  can  be  left  with,  so  the  17-year-old  son  was  probably
appropriate. Therefore, C  is  incorrect.  Service  can  be  made  by  any
person who is at least 18 years old and is not a party to the action.
Therefore, D is incorrect.

68. A Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 24, “the court must permit anyone to intervene
who . . . claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that
is  the  subject  of  the  action,  and  is  so  situated  that  disposing  of  the
action may as a practical matter impair or impede the movant's ability
to protect its interest, unless existing parties adequately represent that
interest.” As the mother of a student in a poor-area school, the woman
clearly  has  an  interest  in  the  action  and  could  lose  her  ability  to
protect  that  interest  if  the  civil  rights  activist  loses  the  case.  The
important point here is that there is no indication the existing parties
will adequately represent her interests.

B  is  incorrect  because  if  the  court  found  that  the  existing  parties
would  adequately  protect  the  woman's  interest,  she  would  not  be
allowed to intervene as of right. C and D  are  incorrect  because  the
underlying nature of the action is irrelevant.

69. D “A party must, without awaiting a discovery request, provide to the
other parties . . . any insurance agreement under which an insurance

89

business may be liable to satisfy all or part of a possible judgment.”
See  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  26(a)(1)(A). Consequently,  the  attorney  does  not
have to do anything to get the information she wants.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

70.  C  For  a  class  action  to  be  brought,  the  class  must  meet  four
requirements. First, the class must be so numerous that joinder of all
its  members  is  impracticable.  Second,  there  must  be  a  common
question of law or fact. Third, the representatives must have a claim
or  defense  typical  to  the  other  members  of  the  class.  Fourth,  the
representatives must fairly and adequately protect the interests of the
class. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 23. Here, since there are only 12 potential
class members, it is unlikely a court would find the class so numerous
that joinder is impracticable. Therefore, A and B are incorrect.

D is incorrect because it is not necessary in a class action that each of
the  unnamed  members  of  the  class  claim  over  a  certain  amount  in
damages.

71.  B  Collateral  estoppel  (also  known  as  issue  preclusion)  refers  to  the
situation where a particular issue of fact or law has been determined
in a prior proceeding, and a party seeks to use that determination in a
subsequent  proceeding.  In  that  case,  courts  state  that  a  party  is
collaterally  estopped  from  re-litigating  the  issue.  In  Parklane
Hosiery  Co.  v.  Shore,  439  U.S.  322  (1979),  the  United  States
Supreme  Court  ruled  that  in  a  similar  situation  a  party  could  use
collateral  estoppel  offensively  against  another  party  when  it  was
unlikely that the party seeking estoppel could have intervened in the
first  action.  Here,  since  it  was  unlikely  the  shareholder  could  have
intervened  in  an  action  brought  by  the  SEC,  he  can  use  collateral
estoppel  to  prevent  re-litigation  of  the  issue  in  his  suit  against  the
company.

A is incorrect because its not enough that the issue was decided in the
prior action—there must be some indication that the party seeking to
use  collateral  estoppel  in  this  way  would  not  have  been  able  to
intervene  in  the  prior  lawsuit.  C  is  incorrect  because  such  use  of
collateral  estoppel  does  not  violate  a  party's  Seventh  Amendment
right to a jury trial even if the prior action involves equitable claims.
D is incorrect because the shareholder can use the prior ruling even if
he was not a party to the SEC action.

90

72.  A  The  Seventh  Amendment  of  the  United  States  Constitution  gives  a
right to a jury for suits “at common law.” Consequently, with only a
few exceptions, there is only a right to a jury trial for claims that are
“legal”  (those  claims  that  involve  a  claim  for  damages).  There  is
generally  no  right  to  a  jury  trial  for  claims  that  are  “equitable”
(claims that involve an injunction). Here, since the singer is seeking
an injunction, he is not entitled to a trial by jury.

Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.

73. A Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 48, “a jury must begin with at least six and no
more  than  12  members.”  In  addition,  “unless  the  parties  stipulate
otherwise, the verdict must be unanimous and must be returned by a
jury of at least six members.” Since there is no indication the parties
stipulated otherwise, the jury's verdict has to be unanimous before it
can be entered in the man's favor. Therefore, C and D are incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because,  as  stated  above,  a  jury  can  have  between  6
and 12 members.

74. C A crossclaim is when a party makes a claim against a co-plaintiff or
co-defendant. Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 13(g), a crossclaim must be part
of  the  same  transaction  or  occurrence.  However,  a  crossclaim  is
always  optional.  Consequently,  the  store  can  file  its  own  claim
against the delivery service.

A and B are incorrect because the crossclaim is still optional even if
it is fully litigated in the other action and even if it arises out of the
same transaction or occurrence. D is incorrect because the citizenship
of the parties does not change the analysis regarding the crossclaim.

75. A In International Shoe v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945), the United
States  Supreme  Court  ruled  that  an  out-of-state  company  had
sufficient minimum contacts with the forum state when that company
purposely availed itself of the chance to do business there, and should
have  anticipated  being  required  to  litigate  claims  in  the  forum  state.
Here,  by  having  a  salesman  in  the  state,  the  supplier  purposefully
availed  itself  of  the  chance  to  do  business  there  and  should  have
anticipated the possibility of litigation.

Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.
