PRACTICE MBE — A.M. QUESTIONS

1. A man was looking out through the open window of his house when he
saw a robber knock down an old woman and snatch her handbag. As
the robber ran off with the woman's purse, the man grabbed a wooden
board and jumped through his window. After chasing the robber for
two blocks, the man caught up with him and struck him on the head
with the wooden board. The man retrieved the purse and returned it to
the woman. The robber subsequently died as the result of being struck
by the man.

If the man is prosecuted for criminal homicide, his most effective
argument in defense would be that he used force that

(A) the woman would have been privileged to use to defend herself.

(B) the reasonable person in the man's position would have used to

defend the woman.

(C) the reasonable person in the woman's position would have used to

defend her property.

(D) the reasonable person in the man's position would have used to

prevent the robber's escape from a crime.

2. At the trial of an action brought by the plaintiff against the defendant
for damages resulting from breach of contract, the plaintiff's attorney
called the witness as a witness on the plaintiff's direct case. After the
witness was sworn, the plaintiff's attorney asked only one question:
“Are you employed by the defendant in this case?” The witness
answered, “Yes.” The plaintiff's attorney then said, “I have no further
questions.”

On cross-examination, the defendant's attorney asked the witness, “Do
you have any personal knowledge of the contract that is the basis of this lawsuit?”

If the plaintiff's attorney objects to the question, which of the following
would be the most effective argument in support of that objection?

(A) The defendant may not impeach its own witness.

(B) The question is leading.

(C) The question is argumentative.

(D) The question goes beyond the scope of cross-examination.

3. After being informed that members of a college fraternity were

engaged in the unlawful sale of cocaine, police officers obtained a
warrant to search the fraternity house. While searching, the officers
discovered the defendant, a guest of one of the fraternity's members,
sitting on a bed in a room of the house. Under the bed was a locked
trunk. Inside the trunk, the officers found a box of cocaine. They
immediately placed the defendant under arrest for possession of
cocaine and, upon searching her, found a plastic bag in her pocket
containing marijuana. Subsequently charged with the unlawful
possession of marijuana, the defendant moved to suppress use of the
marijuana as evidence against her.

Which of the following would be the prosecution's most effective
argument in response to the defendant's motion?

(A) Marijuana found in the defendant's possession could properly be

seized as “fruit of the poisonous tree.”

(B) The defendant's proximity to the trunk gave the officers probable
cause to believe that she was guilty of possessing cocaine.

(C) The officers searching the fraternity house were entitled to frisk all
persons present to protect themselves against the possibility of
physical attack.

(D) A warrant authorizing the search of specified premises permits the
arrest of all persons present at the time the warrant is executed.

4. Upon inheriting her aunt's ranch, the seller subdivided it into 1,000
separate numbered parcels of realty and offered them for sale. After
inspecting a parcel that had no building on it, the buyer and his attorney
went to see the seller in her sales office. After negotiation, the seller
accepted the buyer's offer to purchase the parcel for $15,000. At the

1087

buyer's request, the attorney prepared a contract of sale, using a printed
form that the attorney had brought with her. While doing so, the
attorney asked the seller how to identify the parcel involved. Although
its correct identification was “Parcel 241,” the seller inadvertently
referred to it as “Parcel 341.” None of them were aware of the seller's
error. As soon as the attorney finished preparing it, the seller and the
buyer signed a contract that described the realty as Parcel No. 341.

Although Parcels No. 241 and No. 341 were the same size, Parcel No.
341 had a valuable building on it that made it worth $80,000. Prior to
the date set for closing, the seller realized her mistake. She
immediately informed the buyer of the error. If the buyer sues the
seller for an order directing her to convey Parcel No. 341 to him for
$15,000, which of the following would be the seller's most effective
argument in defense?

(A) The buyer should have known that realty with a building on it was

more valuable than realty without a building on it.

(B) The buyer selected the attorney to prepare the contract.

(C) Parcel No. 341 was substantially more valuable than Parcel No.

241.

(D) Both the seller and the buyer were mistaken about the identity of the

parcel described in the contract.

5. A state law provides that no person may hold elective state office
while acting as a practicing member of the clergy of any religious
organization. The plaintiff, a practicing member of the clergy, asked the
state commissioner of elections to enter his name as a candidate for the
office of state legislator. The commissioner advised the plaintiff that
under the state law described above, she could do so only if the
plaintiff resigned his position.

If the plaintiff challenges the constitutionality of the state law on the
ground that it violates the Free Exercise Clause of the First
Amendment, which of the following arguments best supports the
conclusion that the statute is unconstitutional?

(A) A state may not set qualifications for elective state office that are

different from those for elective federal office.

(B) The state may not set qualifications for practicing members of the

1088

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

clergy of religious organizations.

(C) The statute creates political divisiveness along religious lines.

(D) The statute discriminates against persons because of their religious

affiliations.

6. A girl's mother, a citizen of State A, brought suit in federal district

court in State A against a saddle maker, a citizen of State B, after the
girl fell during a riding lesson. The mother bought the saddle from the
saddle maker online, and the saddle maker shipped it to her directly in
State A. State A's long-arm statute stated that service could be made on
out-of-state individuals by first-class mail, so long as the alleged
injury occurred within State A. State B did not allow service by mail.

Is service proper if the girl's mother sends it to the saddle maker by
first-class mail?

(A) Yes, because the federal district court sits in State A.

(B) Yes, because it is allowed under federal law.

(C) No, because it is not allowed under federal law.

(D) No, because State B does not allow it.

7. The victim, who was employed as a security guard, was required to
carry a loaded pistol on the job. While traveling to and from his job,
however, he kept the pistol unloaded. Driving to work one day, the
victim's car was struck from behind by a car operated by the defendant.
In the discussion that ensued, the defendant used language that the
victim found offensive. At that point, the victim turned his back on the
defendant and attempted to walk away. Angry, the defendant ran after
the victim and slapped him in the face. Although the victim did not
intend to shoot the defendant, he pulled his pistol from its holster and
began loading it, hoping that the defendant would become frightened
and leave him alone. When the defendant saw the victim loading the
pistol, he thought of running away, but he was afraid that the victim
would shoot him if he tried to do so. Drawing a knife from his pocket,
the defendant stabbed the victim in the chest. The defendant was
subsequently arrested and charged with assaulting the victim with a
deadly weapon.

If the defendant asserts the privilege of self-defense, he should be
found

1089

(A) guilty, because as the initial aggressor, the defendant had no

privilege to use deadly force.

(B) guilty, because the defendant could have successfully escaped in his

car without being shot by the victim.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant's fear of being shot by the victim

was reasonable.

(D) not guilty, because the victim should have known that by loading his
pistol, he was inviting the use of deadly force by the defendant.

8. The plaintiff was a passenger on a motorcycle operated by her friend
when it collided with a car operated by the defendant. As a result of
the collision, the plaintiff sustained injuries that required her
hospitalization. Although the plaintiff's hospital bills were high, they
were paid in full by the insurance company under a policy that the
plaintiff had purchased previously. In litigation by the plaintiff against
the defendant for negligence, a jury found for the plaintiff in the sum of
$50,000. Prior to the entry of judgment, the defendant's attorney made
an appropriate motion asking the court to reduce the damage award by
the amount that the plaintiff had already received from the insurance
company.

The motion to reduce the plaintiff's damage award should be

(A) denied, because the insurance company was not acting for any

person liable to the plaintiff for negligence.

(B) denied, because payment by the insurance company was not the

result of a judicial determination.

(C) granted, because the plaintiff should not be permitted to receive a

double recovery.

(D) granted, because the defendant is entitled to partial indemnity.

9. The defendant operated a computer repair business, servicing the

computers of several large organizations with the assistance of her
daughter. When the defendant decided to retire, she sold the entire
business to her daughter. As part of the sale, she assigned to her
daughter a written contract to repair and service all the plaintiff's
computers for a period of three years in return for a fixed monthly
payment.

1090

The day after her assignment to her daughter, the defendant notified the
plaintiff about it by telephone. Because the plaintiff knew that the
daughter had worked on his computers in the past, he consented to the
assignment and orally agreed to release the defendant from all further
obligation or liability under their contract. The plaintiff subsequently
became dissatisfied with the daughter's service, however, and asserted
a claim against the defendant for breach of contract.

If the defendant's only defense is that the plaintiff agreed to release her
from all further obligation or liability under their contract, which of
the following would be the plaintiff's most effective argument in
response to that defense?

(A) The defendant is attempting to use parol evidence to contradict or

modify the terms of an unambiguous written agreement.

(B) There was no consideration for the plaintiff's agreement to release

the defendant of further obligation or liability under the contract.

(C) The agreement to release the defendant of further obligation or

liability under the contract was not in writing.

(D) The defendant's delegation to her daughter and the plaintiff's
agreement to release the defendant constituted an accord and
satisfaction.

10. A doctor sued a truck driver in state court in State A for injuries he

received in an automobile accident. Under State A law, any negligence
on a plaintiff's part barred the plaintiff from recovery. The court found
in favor of the doctor and awarded him $100,000 in damages. The
truck driver then brought a negligence suit against the doctor in state
court in State A to recover the damages done to his truck. State A law
did not require any claim to be a compulsory counterclaim.

May the truck driver bring his action against the doctor?

(A) No, because the issue of the doctor's negligence was already

litigated.

(B) No, because the property damage arose from the same transaction

or occurrence.

(C) Yes, because State A does not require any claim to be a compulsory

counterclaim.

1091

(D) Yes, because the truck driver is bringing his action in a state court

in State A.

11. Congress passes a law providing that no one who has been a member
of an organization that uses unlawful means to deprive any group of
persons of their rights under the United States Constitution is eligible
for employment by the federal government. If the constitutionality of
that law is challenged, it should be held

(A) unconstitutional, because it is an ex post facto law.

(B) unconstitutional, because it prohibits members of certain

organizations from holding public office without regard to whether
those members knew the purpose of the organizations to which they
belonged.

(C) constitutional, because employment by the federal government is

not a right but a privilege.

(D) constitutional, because the federal government has the right to
protect itself by not employing persons who hold views
inconsistent with the United States Constitution.

12. A river is located entirely within the state. Acting under authority

granted by Congress, the Federal Transportation Commission awarded
a contract to the company for the construction of a bridge over the river
so road users could enter a neighboring state for business. The contract
required that all materials used in constructing the bridge be purchased
within the state.

A state statute imposes a 6 percent sales tax, to be paid by the buyer,
on any purchases made within the state. Upon purchasing steel in the
state for use in the construction of the bridge, the company refused to
pay the sales tax. As a result, the state prosecuted the company for
violating the sales tax statute.

If the company's only defense is that in fulfilling a contract with the
federal government, it was immune from the state sales tax statute, the
court should find the company

(A) not guilty since the bridge was to be used in interstate commerce.

(B) not guilty, because the state lacks power to tax activities of the

federal government.

1092

(C) guilty, because independent contractors working for the federal

government are subject to state taxes.

(D) guilty, because the company's contract with the Federal

Transportation Commission was not on a cost-plus-fixed-profit
basis.

13. When the plaintiff applied for a job as a nurse at a hospital, the

hospital's personnel department sent questionnaires to doctors on its
staff, requesting information about the plaintiff. The defendant, a doctor
on staff, knew the plaintiff from when they had both been employed at
another clinic. Since the defendant had heard another doctor who was
very well respected as a trainer and mentor of nurses at that clinic
accuse the plaintiff of incompetence resulting in the death of a patient,
the defendant disliked the plaintiff. In fact, however, the doctor who
made the accusation had mistaken the plaintiff for another nurse, and
the plaintiff had been cleared of blame by a clinic board of inquiry.

Hoping that the plaintiff's job application would be rejected, the
defendant wrote on the questionnaire, “I once heard that the plaintiff's
incompetence resulted in the death of a patient.” The hospital did not
hire the plaintiff.

If the plaintiff asserts a defamation claim against the defendant for the
defendant's statement in the questionnaire, the court should find for

(A) The defendant, because the defendant reasonably believed that the

plaintiff's incompetence resulted in the death of a patient.

(B) The defendant, because the statement clearly indicated that the

defendant had heard the accusation from another.

(C) The plaintiff, because the defendant's dislike of the plaintiff and the
defendant's hope that the plaintiff's job application would be
rejected amounted to actual malice.

(D) The plaintiff, because the statement resulted in the hospital not

hiring the plaintiff.

14. In December 2009, the seller, a manufacturer of packaging materials,
entered into a written agreement with the buyer, a wholesaler of
melons. The agreement provided that the buyer would purchase from
the seller all the boxes required by the buyer for packaging melons in
2012, but that in no event would the number of boxes required be less

1093

than 2,000.

After the agreement was executed, the price of melons fell from $1 per
melon to $0.80 per melon. As a result, the buyer notified the seller in
January 2012 that he intended to package melons in bags instead of
boxes and that he would not order any boxes from the seller in 2012.

In January 2012, the seller instituted an action against the buyer for
damages. If the buyer asks the court to dismiss the seller's action,
should the court do so?

(A) Yes, because the buyer might still order 2,000 boxes by the end of

2012.

(B) Yes, because the provision that required the seller to furnish all the
boxes required by the buyer in 2012 makes it impossible for the
court to determine the seller's damages.

(C) No, because damages are presumed to result from every breach of

contract.

(D) No, because the buyer has stated that he will not fulfill his

obligations under the contract.

15. A riot broke out during a political rally in the town. Subsequently, a
newspaper published an editorial about the rally and the ensuing
disruption. The editorial stated that “Police present at the rally beat
and kicked innocent bystanders and engaged in other acts of senseless
and unnecessary brutality.” Following publication of the editorial, the
four police officers who were present at the rally asserted a
defamation claim against the newspaper.

The only argument raised by the newspaper in defense is that the
statements contained in the editorial did not identify the plaintiffs. The
court should find for

(A) the plaintiffs, because the number of police present at the rally was
so small that readers who knew the plaintiffs would believe that
the statement had been made about them.

(B) the plaintiffs, because they were engaged in their official duties as

police officers.

(C) the plaintiffs, because the statement was slander per se.

1094

(D) the newspaper, because the statement did not specifically name the

plaintiffs.

16. A woman was called as a juror in a claim brought in federal district
court. The action involved a man's claim that he was unlawfully
targeted and beaten by several local police officers because of his
race. During voir dire, the woman stated she would find it hard to keep
an open mind because she believed that police officers and
departments habitually discriminated against minorities. However, she
said she had no strong feelings or prior knowledge about the case or
the parties involved. Both the woman and the man were black, while
the police officers involved were white.

Based on her statements during voir dire, would it be proper for the
juror to be excused?

(A) No, because the juror cannot be excused based on her race.

(B) No, because the juror stated she had no strong feelings or prior

knowledge about the case or parties.

(C) Yes, because the juror stated it would be hard to keep an open

mind.

(D) Yes, because the juror had an implied bias in the man's favor.

17. The plaintiff asserted a tort claim against the defendant for battery but
died of cancer before the trial. At the trial, the witness was called as a
witness by the attorney for the plaintiff's estate. The witness testified
that she was a police officer called to the scene of a shooting, and that
when she arrived, she found the plaintiff lying on the ground in a pool
of blood. The witness stated that when she asked the plaintiff to tell her
what happened, the plaintiff replied, “Tell my wife to meet me at the
hospital and tell her that the defendant shot me.”

The defendant objected. If the court finds that the plaintiff's statement
to the witness was not a dying declaration, it will probably be because

(A) the plaintiff did not believe that he was dying when he made the

statement.

(B) the plaintiff did not die as a result of the shooting.

(C) the witness's testimony was not being offered at the trial of a

criminal prosecution.

1095

(D) the plaintiff's statement was not made spontaneously.

18. A man was injured when a boiler in his building exploded. The man

sued the owner of the building. The man hired an accident investigator
who talked to one of the building's maintenance workers. The
maintenance worker told the investigator that the boiler exploded
because the building owner failed to make necessary repairs. The man
also hired an expert in boiler explosions. The expert read the
investigator's report. The expert then testified on behalf of the man,
saying the boiler exploded because the building owner failed to make
necessary repairs. She based her testimony in part on the maintenance
worker's statement because other experts in boiler explosion analysis
would do so.

Assuming the maintenance worker's statement is inadmissible hearsay,
may the expert base part of her testimony on the statement?

(A) No, because the maintenance worker's statement is not

substantively admissible.

(B) No, because the expert did not interview the maintenance worker

herself.

(C) Yes, because the expert's use of the statement in her testimony

makes the statement substantively admissible.

(D) Yes, because other experts in the field would rely on the

maintenance worker's statement.

19. After serving a portion of his sentence in a state prison, the plaintiff

applied for parole in accordance with state law. His application was
denied following a State Parole Board hearing at which the plaintiff
was not permitted to appear either in person or by counsel. The
plaintiff subsequently instituted a proceeding in a state court in which
he claimed that the hearing violated his right to due process under the
federal and state constitutions. The state court found for the plaintiff.
On appeal by the State Parole Board, the highest appellate court in the
state affirmed. In its decision, the court refused to consider claims
under the federal constitution but concluded that the state constitution
had been violated.

On application by the State Parole Board, is judicial review by the
United States Supreme Court available?

1096

(A) No.

(B) Yes, by certiorari only.

(C) Yes, by appeal only.

(D) Yes, by either certiorari or appeal.

20. The defendant was charged with violating a state law that made it a

crime to knowingly issue a worthless check. On the presentation of its
direct case at trial, the prosecution offered into evidence a properly
authenticated judgment showing that the defendant had been convicted
of violating the same law three years earlier. The defendant's counsel
objected. Which of the following statements is correct about the
judgment of conviction?

(A) It is admissible as substantive evidence of modus operandi.

(B) It is admissible to impeach the defendant's credibility.

(C) It is admissible both as substantive evidence of modus operandi

and to impeach the defendant's credibility.

(D) It is inadmissible.

21. A landowner conveyed a large nature area “to the county, but if the
land ceases to be used as a nature park, to my friend and his heirs.”
What interests are created by this conveyance?

(A) The county has a fee simple absolute.

(B) The county has a fee simple subject to an executory limitation, and

the friend has an executory interest.

(C) The county has a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent, and

the friend has a right of entry.

(D) The county has a fee simple determinable, and the friend has a

possibility of reverter.

22. A landowner decided to make a gift to his son of a parcel of land he
owned. He properly prepared a deed for the transfer of the land
according to state law and handed it to his son, saying “I want you to
own this land.” Nine months later, the landowner met a woman and fell
deeply in love with her. Soon thereafter, he had a fight with his son
about the woman. He told his son to return or destroy the deed because
he was “revoking his gift.” The son made a photocopy of the deed and
gave the deed back to the landowner. The landowner then threw the

1097

deed in a fire. Two months later, the landowner died, leaving all of his
real and personal property to the woman.

Who owns the land?

(A) The woman, because the son returned the deed to the landowner.

(B) The woman, because the landowner told the son he was revoking

his gift.

(C) The son, because he kept a photocopy of the deed.

(D) The son, because the landowner gave him the deed.

23. A woman purchased a food and beverage processing machine as a gift
for her husband. The machine was manufactured by the company and
was purchased by the woman from a store, a retailer. When the woman
got home, she unpacked the machine, placed it on the kitchen counter,
and plugged it into an electrical outlet. When she started the machine,
however, she noticed a jarring vibration. She immediately switched the
machine off and telephoned the store. After she described the vibration
to a store employee, the employee said, “If the processor vibrates like
that, it is defective. Don't try to use it. It's inherently dangerous.”

The woman left the processing machine on the counter, still plugged in,
and went out for the evening. The husband arrived home soon
afterwards. With him was a neighbor. When the husband saw the
processing machine on the counter, he decided to use it to mix drinks
for the neighbor and himself. After placing the necessary ingredients in
the machine's glass container, the husband switched it on. The machine
immediately began to vibrate, causing the glass container to shatter.
The neighbor was seriously injured by flying glass.

The neighbor asserts a claim against the store for damages resulting
from a defect in the processing machine. Which of the following
would be the store's most effective argument in defense against that
claim?

(A) The neighbor was a bystander.

(B) The woman had assumed the risk by leaving the processing

machine plugged into the electrical outlet.

(C) The processing machine was defective at the time it left the

company's factory.

1098

(D) The woman's conduct in leaving the processing machine plugged
into the electrical outlet was a superseding cause of harm.

24. The plaintiff challenges the constitutionality of a state law that

provides that no contraceptive device that requires insertion into a
cavity of the human body may be sold without a prescription. If the
only argument used by the plaintiff is that the statute violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because only women
use such devices, which of the following would be the most effective
argument in opposition to the plaintiff's claim?

(A) Gender is not a suspect classification.

(B) The statute has a rational basis because devices inserted into the

human body are more likely to cause harm than devices
manufactured solely for external use.

(C) The right to protect citizens against their own lack of judgment is

included in the state's police powers.

(D) The statute bears a substantial relationship to an important

government interest because devices inserted into the human body
are more likely to cause harm than devices manufactured solely for
external use.

25. On January 10, the plaintiff, a builder, entered into a written contract

with the defendant to construct a building on the defendant's realty. The
contract required the plaintiff to build to specifications furnished by the
architect and required the defendant to make periodic payments to the
plaintiff during construction. A final payment of $30,000 was to be
made when the building was complete. The contract provided,
however, that “In no event shall said final payment be required unless
the plaintiff obtains and presents to the defendant prior to July 30 a
Certificate of Satisfactory Completion issued by the architect
following final inspection by the architect.”

On July 15, after making all periodic payments required by the
contract, the defendant asked the architect to delay issuing a
Certificate of Satisfactory Completion until after July 30. The architect
agreed to do so. On July 20, the plaintiff notified the architect that the
building was complete and requested final inspection. The architect
did not inspect the building or issue a Certificate of Satisfactory
Completion until August 15. On August 16, the plaintiff requested final
payment from the defendant, presenting the Certificate. The defendant

1099

refused to make payment on the ground that the plaintiff did not obtain
the Certificate prior to July 30, as required by the contract.

In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant for breach of
contract, which of the following would be the plaintiff's most effective
argument?

(A) The contract between the plaintiff and the defendant imposed upon

the architect an obligation to act reasonably in issuing the
Certificate of Satisfactory Completion.

(B) The plaintiff substantially performed all conditions of the contract

by completing the building prior to July 30.

(C) As a result of the defendant's request that the architect delay issuing
the Certificate of Satisfactory Completion, the plaintiff was not
required to obtain it prior to July 30.

(D) Applying an objective standard, satisfactory completion was

achieved prior to July 30.

26. At the defendant's trial on criminal charges, undisputed evidence
established that the defendant and his friend had planned to take a
certain fur coat from the victim's fur shop by threatening the victim
with a pistol carried by the friend; that when they did so, the victim
began shooting at them; and that the friend shot back with his pistol,
intentionally killing the victim.

Testifying on behalf of the prosecution, the friend stated that the
defendant knew that the friend's pistol would be loaded. He also stated
that the victim had handed the defendant the coat; that the friend had
returned his own gun to his pocket; and that he and the defendant were
on their way out of the victim's shop when the victim began shooting at
them.

The defendant testified that the coat in question had previously been
stolen from her by the victim, and that she and the friend were trying to
retrieve it.

Statutes in the jurisdiction define first degree murder as the intentional
unlawful killing of a human being, and second degree murder as the
unintentional killing of a human being by the defendant or an
accomplice during the course of a burglary, robbery, rape, kidnapping,

1100

or arson committed by the defendant.

The defendant is charged with first degree murder on the ground that
as a co-conspirator and accomplice, she is vicariously liable for the
friend's shooting of the victim. If the jury does not believe the
testimony of the friend or of the defendant, the defendant should be
found

(A) guilty, because she and the friend planned to take the coat by

threatening the victim with the friend's pistol.

(B) guilty, because she was present when the friend shot the victim.

(C) not guilty, because the victim shot first.

(D) not guilty, because she did not aid 

or abet the friend in shooting the victim.

27. On February 1, the landowner conveyed a parcel of realty to his friend
as a gift. The landowner executed the deed in the presence of a notary
public, and the notary affixed his seal as required by law. On March 1,
after the landowner learned that his friend had not recorded his title,
the landowner purported to convey the same parcel of realty to his
neighbor for value. The neighbor was unaware that the landowner's
friend held any interest in the 
realty. On March 15, the friend recorded the deed that he had received
from the landowner in February. In June, the neighbor executed a deed
conveying the realty to the notary. The notary immediately recorded the
deed.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “No transfer of an interest in
real property shall be good against a subsequent purchaser for value
without notice of such transfer unless it shall have been recorded.” In
litigation between the friend and the notary, who should be declared
owner of the realty?

(A) The friend, because the notary had notice that the realty had first

been conveyed to him.

(B) The friend because the landowner conveyed the property to him

first.

(C) The neighbor, because he purchased the property for value.

(D) The notary, because the neighbor 

1101

purchased the realty from the landowner before the friend recorded
his deed.

28. A boy and a girl were dating when they decided it was time for them to

try sexual intercourse. The girl was 17 years old. A statute in the
jurisdiction provided that any male who has sexual intercourse with a
female whom he knows to be under the age of 18 shall be guilty of
second degree rape.

If the boy is charged with second degree rape under the above statute,
which of the following facts or inferences, if it was the only one true,
would provide the boy with his most effective defense to that charge?

(A) The boy was 17 years of age at the time of the alleged crime.

(B) The boy did not know that the girl was below the age of 18 years

when he had sexual intercourse with her.

(C) The boy was intoxicated at the time he had sexual intercourse with

the girl.

(D) The girl was not intoxicated, and, in fact, consented to having

sexual intercourse with the boy.

29. A man sued a moving company for $100,000 in state court in State A
after the man was injured by one of the moving company's trucks. His
claim was based on State A motor vehicle law. The man was a citizen
of State A. The moving company was incorporated in State B and had
70 percent of its business operations in State A. However, all of the
company's directors and top management worked in State C.

Because of a large amount of local bad press, the moving company had
a good faith belief that any action against it in State A would be unfair.
May it remove the action to federal district court?

(A) No, because the man's claim was based on State A motor vehicle

law.

(B) No, because the moving company was a citizen of State A.

(C) Yes, because the moving company's directors and top management

worked in State C.

(D) Yes, because the moving company had a good faith belief that any

action against it in State A would be unfair.

1102

30. The defendant was driving her truck across a bridge when the bridge
collapsed, causing a car driven by the plaintiff to fall into the river.
The plaintiff subsequently asserted a negligence claim against the
defendant for injuries that he sustained in the fall.

A statute in the jurisdiction prohibits the operation of a vehicle
weighing more than 20,000 pounds at a speed in excess of 25 miles
per hour on any bridge in the state. At the trial, it was proven that the
defendant's truck weighed 30,000 pounds, and that the defendant was
driving it at a speed of 40 miles per hour when the bridge collapsed. It
was also proven that a truck weighing 30,000 pounds would have been
more likely to cause the bridge to collapse if driven across it at a
speed under 25 miles per hour than at a speed over 25 miles per hour.

The court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the defendant's violation of the statute was

negligence per se.

(B) the plaintiff, because the defendant's violation of the statute raises a
presumption that the defendant's negligence was a proximate cause
of the plaintiff's injuries.

(C) the defendant, because the defendant's violation of statute was not a

factual cause of the plaintiff's injury.

(D) the defendant, because the defendant did not violate a statute that
was designed to protect a class of persons to which the plaintiff
belonged.

31. The landowner conveyed a lakefront parcel of realty to the buyer

“unless the realty is used for non-residential purposes, in which case
grantor or his successors may re-obtain possession.” Two years later,
by a properly executed document that was subsequently recorded, the
buyer granted a fisherman a license to enter the realty for a period of
five years to fish from the lake on which it fronted. If the landowner
commences an appropriate proceeding seeking possession of the realty,
the buyer's most effective argument in defense would be that

(A) the condition contained in the landowner's deed to the buyer

violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(B) fishing is a residential use of the realty.

(C) the landowner's deed created a fee simple subject to a condition

1103

subsequent.

(D) the condition contained in the landowner's deed to the buyer is void

as a restraint on alienation.

32. A sculptor and a famous architect entered into a contract to design a

new studio for the sculptor. The sculptor told the architect that she was
hiring her because she believed in her unique vision. The written
contract also provided that “neither party shall assign or delegate this
contract without the other party's written approval.”

The sculptor subsequently hired a builder who began construction of
the architect's design. As work progressed, the sculptor and the
architect argued frequently. When the building was 85 percent
complete, the architect refused to continue working for the sculptor
and executed a document purporting to assign the contract to another
architect. The architectural work that remained involved personal
services. The sculptor immediately ordered the builder to stop
construction and sued the architect for an order directing her to
specifically perform her obligations under the contract.

Should the court grant the relief requested by the sculptor?

(A) Yes, because the architectural work that remained to be completed
at the time of the architect's assignment involved personal services.

(B) Yes, because the agreement between the sculptor and the architect

prohibited assignment.

(C) No, because an agreement not to assign destroys the power but not

the right to make a valid assignment.

(D) No, because the architectural work that remained to be completed

at the time of the architect's assignment involved personal services.

33. At the trial of a breach of contract action brought by the plaintiff

against the defendant, the plaintiff testified in her own behalf. The
plaintiff stated that a man who called her on the telephone said that he
was the defendant and ordered goods from her at an agreed price. She
said that when she tried to deliver the goods, the defendant refused to
accept them. The plaintiff stated further that she had never spoken to
the defendant before or after that telephone conversation, but that she
had heard his voice in the judge's chambers immediately before the
trial began and that she recognized it as the voice of the person to

1104

whom she had spoken on the telephone.

If the defendant's attorney asks the court to exclude the plaintiff's
testimony regarding the identification of the voice on the telephone, the
plaintiff's statement should be

(A) admitted, because the plaintiff heard the defendant's voice in the

judge's chambers before testifying.

(B) admitted, because the person to whom the plaintiff spoke on the

telephone identified himself as the defendant.

(C) excluded, because the plaintiff had never spoken to the defendant

prior to the telephone conversation.

(D) excluded, because the plaintiff had not dialed the defendant's
telephone number before speaking to him on the telephone.

34. A chemical used in the manufacture of munitions is frequently found
floating, as dust, in the air of munitions factories. Since prolonged
inhalation of the chemical can cause lung disease, Congress passes an
Act to limit use of the chemical. Among other things, the Act prohibits
the operation of any munitions factory in which the chemical's airborne
levels exceed specified standards. The Act also establishes an Agency,
authorizes it to inspect munitions factories, and empowers it to issue
Closure Orders, enforceable by the Department of Justice, and
directing the closing of any factory operating in violation of the Act.
Section 34 of the Act provides that Closure Orders do not become
effective until 10 days after their approval by the National Defense
Committee of the Senate.

After determining that airborne levels of the chemical exceed statutory
standards in a munitions factory operated by the company, the Agency
issues a Closure Order, sending copies to the United States
Department of Justice and to the Senate National Defense Committee
as required by the Act. The Senate National Defense Committee
refuses to approve the Closure Order.

If the Department of Justice challenges the constitutionality of Section
34 of the Act in an appropriate proceeding, the court should find this
section

(A) constitutional, because circumstances known only to the Senate

National Defense Committee might make the continued operation of

1105

a particular munitions factory necessary to national security.

(B) constitutional, because after delegating its power to an

administrative agency, Congress may continue to act in a
supervisory capacity.

(C) unconstitutional, because Congress may not delegate to an

administrative agency the power to impose criminal or quasi-
criminal sanctions.

(D) unconstitutional, because Section 34 would allow the passage of

legislation by a committee of Congress.

35. The victim, who lived alone, was a collector of antiques. One day, the
defendant followed the victim to work. Knowing that the victim's
valuable antiques collection was stored in her home, the defendant
phoned the victim at work and told her that he had placed a bomb in
her home. He said that if she immediately paid him $1,000 in cash, he
would give the police information necessary for them to defuse the
bomb. If she did not pay him, he said would detonate the bomb,
destroying her home and her collection of antiques. The victim paid the
defendant as instructed. In reality, the defendant had not placed a bomb
in the victim's home.

What is the most serious offense of which the defendant is likely to be
convicted?

(A) Robbery.

(B) Extortion.

(C) Larceny by trick.

(D) Embezzlement.

36. A state law requires a permit for the use of certain recreational

facilities in state parks and fixes the annual fee for such permits at $25
for residents and $200 for non-residents. If a non-resident of the state
challenges the law as unconstitutional, the LEAST effective argument
in support of that claim would be that the law violates

(A) the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) the Obligation of Contracts Clause of Article I.

(C) the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

1106

(D) the Commerce Clause of Article I.

37. The seller and the buyer entered into a valid written contract for the
sale of the seller's home to the buyer. Subsequently, the seller's
neighbor, the defendant, telephoned the seller and said, “If you don't
back out of your contract with the buyer, there's going to be an accident
and one of your children is going to be seriously hurt. Understand?”
Before the seller had a chance to answer, the defendant hung up. The
seller became so frightened by the defendant's threat that he suffered an
immediate heart attack.

If the seller asserts a claim against the defendant for assault, which of
the following would be the defendant's LEAST effective argument in
defense against that claim?

(A) The defendant's statement did not justify apprehension of immediate

harm.

(B) The defendant told the seller that he could avoid harm by

complying with a specified condition.

(C) The defendant's threat was not directed against the person of the

seller.

(D) The defendant committed no physical act.

38. At his trial on a charge of arson committed in the city, the defendant
testified that on the day of the fire, he was not in the city but was
actually 1,000 miles away in another state. The prosecution
subsequently called a witness who testified that on the day of the fire,
she was in a liquor store in the city when the defendant came into the
store with a gun and robbed its owner. Over timely objection by the
defendant's attorney, the witness's testimony should be

(A) admitted for impeachment only.

(B) admitted as substantive evidence only.

(C) admitted for impeachment and as substantive evidence.

(D) excluded.

39. The landowner was the owner of a parcel of realty on which there

were several buildings and a gold mine. The landowner lived in one of
the buildings and personally worked the gold mine, earning a
comfortable living by selling the gold that he removed. The other

1107

buildings were vacant. When the landowner died, his will devised the
realty “to my friend, but if my friend should die without issue from his
wife, to the mailman.” The landowner's friend and his wife did not
have any children.

Which of the following statements is correct about the mailman's
interest in the realty?

(A) The landowner's will gave the mailman a vested remainder in the

property.

(B) The landowner's will gave the mailman a contingent remainder in

the property.

(C) The landowner's will gave the mailman a shifting executory interest

in the realty.

(D) The mailman has no interest in the realty.

40. After she was fired from her job, a saleswoman brought an action

against her former employer in federal district court in State A. The
saleswoman sought $50,000 in damages. The saleswoman was a
citizen of State A, while her former employer was incorporated in
State B and had its primary place of business in State C. The
saleswoman's action included claims for violation of federal
employment laws and for breach of contract under State A law. The
employer moved to dismiss the breach of contract claim.

How should the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the contract claim is based on state law.

(B) Grant the motion, because the saleswoman is only claiming

$50,000 in damages.

(C) Deny the motion, because the saleswoman can bring all claims she

has against the company in her action.

(D) Deny the motion, because all of her claims arose from the

saleswoman's loss of her job.

41. At the defendant's trial on a charge of rape, the victim testified that on
March 1, the defendant forced her to have sexual intercourse with him
against her will. Testifying in his own defense, the defendant admitted
that he had engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim on that date,
but he claimed that the victim had consented. The defendant stated

1108

further that the victim had not accused him of rape until April 3, when
she discovered that he was married and was living with his wife.

The prosecutor subsequently offered a properly authenticated public
record indicating that the defendant had been convicted of state income
tax fraud in another jurisdiction two years earlier. In both the
jurisdiction where the defendant was convicted and the jurisdiction
where the defendant was being tried for rape, state income tax fraud
was a felony. On objection by the defendant's attorney, the record
should be

(A) admitted.

(B) admitted, because state income tax fraud is a felony in the

jurisdiction where the defendant was convicted.

(C) admitted, because state income tax fraud is a felony in the
jurisdiction where the defendant was being tried for rape.

(D) excluded.

42. The defendant had been convicted of fraud on three separate occasions
and served three different prison sentences as a result. Soon after his
most recent release, the defendant proclaimed himself to be a minister
and began conducting prayer meetings on Sunday nights. During these
meetings, the defendant stated that his vows as minister prevented him
from working for money, and he asked the people present to make cash
contributions to provide for his personal needs. After collecting
several hundred dollars in this fashion, the defendant was arrested and
charged with fraud under a state law that prohibits any person from
making statements that he or she knows to be false for the purpose of
obtaining money from others.

In defense, the defendant asserted that a court could not convict him
without questioning the sincerity of his religious beliefs, and that the
prosecution therefore violated his First Amendment rights to freedom
of religion. He asked that the court dismiss the prosecution on that
ground.

Should the prosecution be dismissed?

(A) Yes.

(B) No, because a court may determine the sincerity of a person's

1109

religious beliefs without violating First Amendment rights to
freedom of religion.

(C) No, because First Amendment rights to freedom of religion cannot

be used to justify what would otherwise be a criminal act.

(D) No, because First Amendment rights to freedom of religion protect

beliefs, but not actions.

43. In which one of the following fact situations is the defendant most

likely to be properly convicted of violating a state law that prohibits
depriving any person of a right conferred by the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution?

(A) The defendant, the president of a university operated by a religious
organization, refused to admit certain students solely because of
their religion.

(B) The defendant, a federal court official, prevented certain persons
from serving on federal juries solely because of their race.

(C) The defendant, the principal of a public high school, expelled

certain students solely because they were pregnant.

(D) The defendant, the vice president of a bank, refused to grant loans
to certain applicants solely because of their place of national
origin.

44. The defendant was the manufacturer of a chemical used by photo
processors. A professional photographer customarily used the
chemical in his processing laboratory. On August 15, 2012, while
working in his laboratory, the photographer read the label of a bottle of
the chemical that he had purchased several months earlier. The label
said, “Best when used prior to June 1, 2012.” Although the
manufacturer knew that the chemical's fumes were extremely toxic, the
label contained no other statements. The photographer poured the
contents of the bottle down a drain that emptied into a municipal sewer.
Because the sewer was cracked, toxic fumes entered the home of the
plaintiff, causing the plaintiff to become seriously ill. The plaintiff's
home was located a half-mile from the photographer's laboratory.

The plaintiff subsequently asserted a claim for damages against the
defendant manufacturer on the ground that the absence of a warning on
the bottle made the product defective and unreasonably dangerous.

1110

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would provide the defendant with its most effective
defense to the plaintiff's claim?

(A) The reasonable person would not have anticipated that the plaintiff

would come into contact with the chemical or its fumes.

(B) The photographer acted negligently in pouring the chemical down

the drain.

(C) The plaintiff's damage would not have occurred but for the crack in

the municipal sewer.

(D) The photographer had purchased the chemical from a retail store

that had purchased it from a wholesaler that had purchased it from
the defendant.

45. A man was injured when he was hit by a taxi. He sued the taxi driver in

federal district court in State A. Under the applicable statute of
limitations, the action had to be commenced by June 16 and an action
was deemed commenced when it was filed with the court. The man
filed his action on June 11. On June 12, he served the complaint on the
taxi driver. On June 13, he received a call from the owner of the taxi
company asking whether he would be brought into the action as well.
The man filed an amended complaint on June 17 that added the owner
as a co-defendant. On June 22, the man served the amended complaint
on both the taxi driver and the owner. The owner moved to dismiss the
complaint, arguing it was barred by the statute of limitations.

How should the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the complaint was served on the owner

more than 10 days after the action commenced.

(B) Grant the motion, because the complaint was amended on June 17.

(C) Deny the motion, because both claims related to the taxi accident.

(D) Deny the motion, because the owner called to ask about the original

complaint.

46. A woman was the owner of a parcel of realty on which she lived with
her husband. The woman was admitted to a hospital following a severe
heart attack. While her husband was visiting her in the hospital, the
woman said, “I know I'm dying, and I want to be sure that you have the
land after I'm gone. Please have our lawyer take care of it.” The

1111

following day, the husband asked the family attorney to prepare a
quitclaim deed to the land for execution by the woman. The husband
brought the document to the woman in the hospital, where she executed
it according to the requirements of law. After signing the quitclaim
deed, the woman handed the document to the husband and said, “Please
put it in the safe deposit box at the bank.” The husband did so, but he
never recorded the quitclaim.

The woman subsequently recovered from her heart attack and was
moved from the hospital to a rest home, where she resided until 30
years later, when she died from other causes. At the woman's request,
the husband continued to occupy, maintain, and pay taxes on the land
throughout that period of time. During the last nine years of her life in
the rest home, the woman was attended by a nurse. When the woman
died, her will purported to leave the land “to my faithful nurse.” The
husband and the nurse subsequently asserted conflicting claims to the
land.

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most likely to result in a judgment for the
husband?

(A) The woman intended the quitclaim deed to be a testamentary

substitute.

(B) The quitclaim deed to the husband was a gift causa mortis.

(C) The safe deposit box into which the woman asked the husband to
put the quitclaim deed was held jointly by the woman and the
husband.

(D) The statutory period for adverse possession is less than 30 years.

47. Assuming that the appropriate objection is made, in which of the

following fact situations is the offered evidence LEAST likely to be
excluded under the original document rule?

(A) In an action for breach of contract, the plaintiff offers a photocopy
of the contract, asserting that the original is kept at the plaintiff's
branch office, which is located in a foreign country.

(B) In a prosecution of the defendant for forging a check, the

prosecution — without producing the check or explaining its
absence — offers to call a witness who will testify that the

1112

defendant paid the witness for merchandise with a check to which
the defendant signed the name “James Grant.”

(C) In a personal injury action, the defendant — without producing the
X-ray or explaining its absence — calls a medical expert who
testifies that based solely on the examination of an X-ray, it is her
opinion that the plaintiff did not sustain a fracture of the skull.

(D) In a lawsuit by the plaintiff against the state tax collector, the

plaintiff offers to testify to the contents of her state income tax
return, asserting that she sent the original to the state tax collector
as required by law, and that she did not keep a copy.

48. A woman from the Southern District of State A was injured in a boating
accident in the Eastern District of State B. The woman sued two other
boaters involved in the accident in a federal action based on diversity.
The first was a doctor from the Western District of State C. The second
was a nurse from the Eastern District of State C.

In which judicial districts would venue be proper for the woman's
action?

(A) The Eastern District of State B.

(B) The Southern District of State A and the Eastern District of State B.

(C) The Western District of State C and the Eastern District of State C.

(D) The Eastern District of State B, the Western District of State C, and

the Eastern District of State C.

49. The defendant was employed by an attorney to clean his office and to
sweep the parking lot every night. While sweeping one evening, the
defendant found the attorney's wallet where he had dropped it in the
parking lot. The wallet contained $300. Planning to return it to the
attorney the next morning, the defendant took the wallet home for
safekeeping. That night, however, realizing that nobody knew that she
had it. the defendant decided to keep the attorney's wallet. She went out
and spent $4 of the attorney's money on ice cream. The following
morning, the defendant felt guilty about keeping the attorney's money.
She replaced what she had spent and returned the wallet and cash to
the attorney.

If the defendant is prosecuted for crimes resulting from the above
incident, she may properly be convicted of

1113

(A) larceny only.

(B) embezzlement only.

(C) neither larceny nor embezzlement.

(D) larceny and embezzlement.

50. The defendant purchased property in a popular resort area and

constructed a restaurant on it. The defendant's restaurant was equipped
with a walk-up window so that people who chose to do so could
purchase food and soft drinks without entering the restaurant. The
defendant kept his restaurant and walk-up window open every night
until 2 A.M. Soon, large noisy crowds of young people began
congregating in front of the defendant's restaurant, making occasional
purchases at the walk-up window and remaining there until it closed.
On many nights, members of the crowd openly smoked marijuana and
used profane language in loud voices. The plaintiff, who resided in a
house next to the restaurant, telephoned the defendant. The plaintiff
complained that the value of his home was being diminished by the
walk-up window and by noise from the restaurant. He asked the
defendant to close the restaurant each night at 11 P.M., but the defendant
refused.

If the plaintiff subsequently asserts a claim against the defendant for
damages resulting from the reduction of his home's value, which of the
following theories would be most likely to result in a judgment for the
plaintiff?

(A) Trespass to land.

(B) Intentional infliction of emotional distress.

(C) Private nuisance.

(D) Invasion of privacy.

51. Because of severe economic recession, the state has enacted a statute

imposing a tax on corporations that have gross sales within the state in
excess of $1 million during a calendar year. The statute applies to all
such corporations, whether incorporated inside or outside the state. It
establishes a sliding-scale tax schedule with a maximum tax rate of 10
percent of gross sales in excess of $1 million.

Which of the following persons or entities is most likely to have

1114

standing to challenge the constitutionality of the statute on the ground
that it violates the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution?

(A) The governor of a neighboring state.

(B) The stockholders of a state corporation with annual gross sales of

$1.5 million in the state.

(C) The stockholders of an out-of-state corporation with annual gross

sales of $500,000 in the state.

(D) A taxpayer in the state.

52. When the landowner died, she left a one-half interest in a parcel of
realty to her niece and the niece's husband, as joint tenants with full
right of survivorship, and a one-half interest in the realty to the 13-
year-old unmarried daughter of the landowner. One year later, the
niece, the husband, and the daughter were killed simultaneously in an
automobile accident.

Which of the following statements correctly describes ownership of
the realty following their deaths?

(A) The heirs of the daughter hold a one-half interest, the heirs of the

niece hold a one-quarter interest, and the heirs of the husband hold
a one-quarter interest.

(B) The entire property is held by the heirs of the daughter.

(C) The heirs of the daughter hold a one-third interest, the heirs of the
niece hold a one-third interest, and the heirs of the husband hold a
one-third interest.

(D) The heirs of the niece hold a one-half interest and the heirs of the

husband hold a one-half interest.

53. The landowner was the owner of a large tract of realty located in a

heavily forested area. In January 2012, the landowner leased the realty
to a friend for a period of 20 years. In March 2012, the landowner sold
the realty to an artist, executing a general warranty deed containing
covenants of seisin, quiet enjoyment, the right to convey, and a
covenant against encumbrances. In April 2012, the artist conveyed the
realty to a baker by a deed containing covenants substantially identical
to those contained in the deed that the artist had received from the
landowner. In May 2012, the artist became insolvent. In June 2012, the
baker attempted to move onto the realty and was prevented from doing

1115

so by the friend, who claimed a superior right.

If the baker subsequently asserts a claim for damages against the
landowner, the baker's most effective theory would be that the
landowner breached the warranty

(A) of seisin.

(B) against encumbrances.

(C) of the right to convey.

(D) of quiet enjoyment.

54. The defendant was the operator of a summer camp for children. The
plaintiff was a nine-year-old child staying at the camp, her parents
having paid the defendant a fee. The plaintiff was playing softball with
other children on a field that the defendant set aside for this purpose.
When one of the children hit the ball, it rolled into a group of bushes
alongside the field. Running into the bushes after the ball, the plaintiff
tripped on a tree root that was covered by a pile of leaves. The tree
root would have been discovered and removed by a reasonable
summer camp operator.

The plaintiff asserted a claim against the defendant, alleging that the
defendant's negligence was a proximate cause of injuries that the
plaintiff sustained when she tripped on the tree root. The court should
find for

(A) the defendant, because the tree root was a natural condition of the

land.

(B) the defendant, because the plaintiff assumed the risk by chasing the

ball into the grove of bushes.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant owed her an absolute duty to

keep the premises safe.

(D) the plaintiff, because a reasonable person in the defendant's
position would have discovered and removed the tree root.

55. The seller owned a 10-acre parcel of realty. On March 6, the seller

offered to sell the land to the buyer for $80,000. The buyer said that he
might be interested but that he would not be in a position to make up
his mind until July. The seller said that she would hold the realty for
the buyer until then and signed a paper on which she wrote:

1116

I  hereby  offer  to  sell  Blackacre  to  the  buyer  for  $80,000  cash.  In
return  for  $1  that  I  have  on  this  date  received,  I  promise  to  hold  this
offer open until July 15.

On July 1, the buyer told the seller that he was ready to purchase the
land, but the seller told him that she had changed her mind and did not
want to sell. The buyer asserted a claim against the seller based on her
written promise to keep the offer open until July 15. At the trial, the
seller proved that she never actually received $1 from the buyer in
return for her promise. In deciding the buyer's claim, the court should
find for

(A) the buyer, because the parol evidence rule prevents the seller from
relying on oral evidence that she did not actually receive $1.

(B) the buyer, because the buyer detrimentally relied on the seller's

promise to keep the offer open until July 15.

(C) the seller, because the realty is obviously worth more than $1.

(D) the seller, because nothing was bargained for or given in exchange

for the seller's promise to keep the offer open until July 15.

56. A woman sued a company in federal district court in State A. She

claimed that she had been injured by one of the company's products and
could no longer work. The company's attorney did not believe the
woman was as injured as she claimed and would like to have the
woman physically examined by a doctor.

What should the company's attorney do?

(A) File notice of request to take a physical examination.

(B) Serve the woman with a notice of deposition.

(C) Obtain a court order requiring the woman to undergo an

examination.

(D) Subpoena the woman to appear at a physical examination.

57. The plaintiff, who was four years of age, was the plaintiff in a battery
action against the defendant, who was seven years of age. At trial, the
plaintiff's attorney called the plaintiff to testify on the plaintiff's direct
case. After interviewing her, the trial judge ruled that because of the
plaintiff's youth, she was unable to appreciate her duty to testify
truthfully and therefore was not a competent witness. The plaintiff's

1117

attorney subsequently called a witness, the plaintiff's neighbor. The
witness testified that, immediately after the incident in question, the
plaintiff had come running up to her on the street, crying and with her
nose bleeding. The witness testified further that at that time the plaintiff
said, “The defendant pushed me and gave me a bloody nose.”

If the defendant's attorney objects to the witness's statement about what
the plaintiff said to her, the court should rule that evidence

(A) admissible as an excited utterance.

(B) admissible because the plaintiff's incompetence to testify made her

a presently unavailable declarant.

(C) inadmissible because it is hearsay.

(D) inadmissible because the plaintiff was incompetent to testify.

58. The plaintiff asserted a claim against the defendant for injuries that the

plaintiff received when she was struck by a truck owned by the
defendant and driven by one of the defendant's employees. At trial, the
plaintiff's attorney called a woman as a witness on the presentation of
the plaintiff's direct case. In response to questions asked by the
plaintiff's attorney, the witness stated that she was presently employed
by the defendant and that she had been driving the defendant's truck on
the day of the accident. The plaintiff's attorney then asked, “You were
going faster than 35 miles per hour, weren't you?” The defendant's
attorney objected to the question on the ground that it was leading.

If the objection of the defendant's attorney is overruled, it will
probably be because

(A) the witness is employed by an adverse party.

(B) the witness is a hostile witness.

(C) leading questions are permitted on cross-examination.

(D) the question was not leading.

59. The defendant, the owner of a gasoline delivery service, operated a

tank truck for delivering gasoline. The defendant's truck was 35 feet in
length and had the words “DANGER — GASOLINE” printed on it.
One day, while on the way to a gasoline delivery, the defendant
stopped at a bank. Although she saw an official sign that prohibited
parking in that location, the defendant parked her truck directly in front

1118

of the bank. A statute in the jurisdiction prohibited parking any vehicle
longer than 30 feet on a city street. Another statute prohibited parking
any vehicle directly in front of a bank. The defendant was aware of
both statutes.

While the defendant was in the bank, a driver, who was driving down
the street, lost control of her car and struck the defendant's truck. As a
result, a large quantity of gasoline in the defendant's delivery tank
exploded, injuring the driver. The plaintiff, a bank employee who was
sitting at his desk inside the bank, was also injured in the explosion.

The plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for his injuries. If
the plaintiff's claim is successful, it will most likely be because

(A) the statute that prohibited parking vehicles longer than 30 feet on a

city street was a traffic safety statute.

(B) the defendant was aware that a statute prohibited parking any

vehicle in front of a bank.

(C) the reasonable person would not park a vehicle in violation of an

official sign that prohibits parking.

(D) transporting large quantities of gasoline is an abnormally dangerous

activity.

60. A seven-year-old girl was admitted to a hospital unconscious. Doctors

who examined her asked the girl's parents to consent to a blood
transfusion for the girl, stating that the girl would probably die
otherwise. The girl's parents refused, saying that they did not believe in
blood transfusions.

A state statute provides that if a child is admitted to a hospital with a
life-threatening disease or injury, and the parents of that child refuse to
consent to treatment that in the opinion of hospital officials is
necessary to save the child's life, the court shall designate the hospital
administrator to act as the child's guardian for the purpose of
consenting to such treatment. The hospital administrator immediately
commenced a proceeding in a state court to have herself declared the
girl's guardian under that statute. The girl's parents petitioned a federal
court to enjoin the state court from granting the hospital administrator's
application on the ground that the state law is unconstitutional on its
face. Prior to the disposition of either proceeding, the girl died.

1119

If the statute is found to be unconstitutional, it will most likely be
because the statute

(A) violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) is vague.

(C) violates the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.

(D) interferes with a fundamental right.

61. After a man died without a will, the state treasurer instituted a

proceeding for a declaration that the man's assets should escheat to the
state, on the ground that there were no living persons eligible to inherit.
A woman opposed the proceeding, claiming that she was the man's
niece and therefore his heir under the state law of intestate distribution.
In support of her claim, the niece offered a Bible. She testified that the
Bible had belonged to her deceased mother, and that her mother had
made notations in it indicating that her husband, the niece's father, was
the man's brother, and indicating the date of birth of her daughter, the
niece. The state treasurer objected to admission of the Bible.

If the notation in the Bible is admitted into evidence, it will probably
be as

(A) an ancient document.

(B) a statement of the mother's personal history or pedigree.

(C) a transaction recorded under the “dead man's statute.”

(D) a record of vital statistics.

62. The defendant and his friend agreed to rob a bank and planned the

robbery for several weeks. According to their plan, the defendant's car
would be used as the getaway vehicle. The defendant was to drive to
and from the robbery and wait in the car while his friend went into the
bank to hold it up. While driving to the bank with his friend on the day
the robbery was to take place, however, the defendant began to have
second thoughts. After a brief conversation with his friend, the
defendant stopped the car. Taking his car keys with him, he told his
friend he wasn't going through with it and went into a store, where he
telephoned the police and told them about the planned robbery. While
the defendant was in the store, his friend left and robbed the bank
himself. The information provided by the defendant's call led to the
apprehension and conviction of his friend.

1120

If the defendant is subsequently arrested and prosecuted for conspiracy
to commit bank robbery, he should be found

(A) not guilty, because he removed his keys from the car when he got

out to phone the police.

(B) not guilty, because he notified his friend that he had changed his

mind about going through with the plan.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant's telephone call to the police led

to the apprehension and conviction of his friend.

(D) guilty.

63. The defendant was the owner and operator of a hotel. Because
electrical wiring in the hotel was beginning to deteriorate, the
defendant hired a licensed electrician to repair it. The electrician was
hired as an independent contractor. If the defendant had done any
investigation regarding the electrician, he would have discovered many
complaints and citations regarding poor work done by the electrician.
While repairing the wiring, the electrician negligently connected the
wiring in room 201 to a dangerous high-voltage supply line instead of
to a safe low-voltage supply line. Reasonable inspection by the
defendant would not have disclosed the error. The following day, when
the plaintiff registered at the hotel, the defendant assigned him to room
201. That evening, while the plaintiff was attempting to adjust the
electric heater in room 201, he received a severe electric shock as a
result of the fact that the room had been connected to a high-voltage
supply line.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damage
resulting from the electric shock, the court should find for

(A) the defendant, because the defendant hired the electrician as an

independent contractor.

(B) the defendant, because reasonable inspection by the defendant

would have failed to disclose the electrician's error.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant failed to use adequate care in

hiring the electrician.

(D) the plaintiff, because the electrician's error made the wiring in

room 201 ultra-hazardous.

64. When the landowner's mother died, she left him a 640-acre parcel of

1121

realty known as the Smith and Baker tract. Soon afterwards, the
landowner executed a general warranty deed to his sister, conveying
realty described as “the north 40 of the parcel of land known as the
Smith and Baker tract.” The landowner thereafter executed a quitclaim
deed in favor of his wife to “all my rights, title, and interest in a parcel
of realty known as the Smith and Baker tract.” The Smith and Baker
tract was a famous piece of land in the area, and was easily
identifiable by its name. However, the jurisdiction was one in which
reference to government survey markers was customarily used in
describing realty in general warranty deeds. If the wife subsequently
institutes a proceeding against the sister seeking to declare herself the
owner of the entire Smith and Baker tract, should the court grant the
relief requested by the wife?

(A) No, because one who executes a quitclaim deed does not warrant

that he or she holds any interest in the property described.

(B) No, because the description in the landowner's deed to the sister
was reasonably sufficient to identify the property conveyed.

(C) Yes, because the jurisdiction is one in which reference to

government survey markers is customarily used in describing realty
in general warranty deeds.

(D) Yes, because a deed that conveys a portion of a parcel of realty

must describe the portion conveyed in terms of “metes and bounds”
or other survey terminology.

65. A newspaper published an article stating that the plaintiff had once

been convicted of armed robbery. In fact, the plaintiff had never been
convicted of any crime. If the plaintiff asserts a defamation claim
against the newspaper, which one of the following additional facts or
inferences, if it was the only one true, would be most likely to result in
a judgment for the newspaper?

(A) Official government records indicating that the plaintiff had never

been convicted of robbery were available for public inspection.

(B) Officials of the newspaper responsible for publishing the article

reasonably believed the statement to be true.

(C) The plaintiff was a public figure.

(D) The plaintiff failed to prove that damage resulted from the

statement.

1122

66. A woman was the owner of a house in which she lived with her 23-

year-old son, the defendant. After receiving a tip that the defendant was
involved in the unlawful sale of drugs, two police officers went to the
woman's home for the purpose of questioning the defendant. When they
arrived, the defendant was not in, but the woman admitted them to the
house. The officers explained why they had come and asked whether
they could see the defendant's room. The woman showed them to the
defendant's room and permitted them to enter, saying that the defendant
never locked his door. When the officers saw a footlocker in the room,
they asked the woman whether they could look inside it. She told them
that the defendant was the only one who had a key to the footlocker, but
she said if they could find some way to open it, she had no objection to
their looking inside. While the woman watched, one of the officers
picked the lock and opened the footlocker. In it, they found a plastic
bag containing cocaine. The officers left the plastic bag there and
returned later with a search warrant that they obtained by swearing that
they had seen cocaine in the defendant's footlocker. After seizing the
cocaine, they arrested the defendant for unlawful possession of a
dangerous drug. Prior to trial, the defendant asked the court to suppress
use of the cocaine as evidence.

The defendant's motion should be

(A) denied, because the woman gave the police permission to open the

footlocker.

(B) denied, because the woman had apparent authority to permit the

search of the defendant's room.

(C) granted.

(D) denied, because the officers had probable cause to believe that they

would find cocaine in the footlocker.

67. After negotiation, the buyer and the seller entered into a valid written
contract for the sale to the buyer of the seller's realty. The contract
provided for closing of title “on or before June 15” because the buyer
was moving into the area on June 15 and needed to move into the realty
immediately. The contract also stated that “time is of the essence.” On
June 12, the seller informed the buyer that she would not be able to
close until June 16. On June 16, the seller tendered a conveyance.
Although the seller complied with the requirements of the contract in
all other respects, the buyer refused to accept the conveyance on the

1123

ground that the date for performance had passed.

If the seller asserts a claim against the buyer as a result of the buyer's
refusal to accept the seller's conveyance on June 16, the court should
find for

(A) the buyer, because circumstances contemplated by the parties at the
time the contract was formed made it essential that the conveyance
occur on or before June 15.

(B) the buyer, because the contract contained the phrase “time is of the

essence.”

(C) the seller, because there was no indication that a conveyance after

June 15 would cause damages to the buyer.

(D) the seller, because she made a reasonable effort to comply with the

terms of the contract.

68. The defendant was the manufacturer of a gas sold for commercial use.
The defendant produced the gas at its factory and stored it in a large
tank located behind the factory building. Although the defendant made
reasonable inspections of its storage tank at reasonable intervals, a
leak in the tank allowed some gas to escape. A wind carried the
escaped gas to the home of the plaintiff, located a half-mile from the
defendant's factory. The plaintiff died as a result of his exposure to the
gas.

In a strict liability claim against the defendant for damages resulting
from the plaintiff's exposure to gas, which of the following must the
plaintiff's personal representative prove to prevail?

(A) The tank in which the defendant stored the gas was defective.

(B) The gas was defectively designed.

(C) The gas was defectively manufactured.

(D) The gas is extremely deadly.

69. After a man died in a plane crash, the man's family sued the airline in
federal district court. The family's attorney hired an expert in airplane
accidents to create a model of the man's accident. Based on his
research, the expert planned to testify that the accident was caused by
pilot negligence.

1124

The airline's attorney would like to know the details of the expert's
research before trial. How may the airline's attorney do so?

(A) The airline's attorney doesn't have to do anything to learn the

details of the expert's research.

(B) The airline's attorney may serve interrogatories on the expert.

(C) The airline's attorney may depose the expert.

(D) The airline's attorney may not know the details of the expert's

research because it is protected work product.

70. The plaintiff asserted a negligence claim against the defendant for
personal injuries sustained when the plaintiff fell down a stairway
while leaving the defendant's restaurant. The defendant asserted a
defense of contributory negligence. At trial, the defendant's attorney
called a witness. After answering several preliminary questions, the
witness testified that she observed the plaintiff leaving the restaurant
just before the accident and that the plaintiff appeared to be
intoxicated. The witness said she based her opinion on the fact she
heard the plaintiff slurring her words and the plaintiff appeared to
almost walk into a wall. The plaintiff's attorney objected, and the judge
found that the witness's opinion appeared to be rationally based on the
witness's personal perceptions. The witness's statement that the
plaintiff appeared to be intoxicated should be

(A) admitted.

(B) excluded, because the witness is not an expert on intoxication.

(C) admitted, but the judge should instruct the jury to disregard it unless

the jury decides that the witness is an expert on intoxication.

(D) admitted, but the judge should instruct the jury to disregard it unless
the jury decides that the witness's opinion is rationally based on
her personal perceptions.

71. The Department of Sanitation was established for the purpose of

providing free sanitation services to the people of the state. Since its
inception, the Department's activities have included garbage collection
and street cleaning. The plaintiff, an alien residing within the state,
applied for a job as a Director of Public Policy with the Department of
Sanitation. The Director had broad discretion regarding policies in the
Department of Sanitation. Although he qualified in all other respects,
the state Personnel Division rejected the plaintiff's application on the

1125

sole ground that he was not a United States citizen. A statute of the state
provides in part that “no person shall be eligible for employment as
Director of Public Policy in the Department of Sanitation who is not a
citizen of the United States.” The plaintiff challenged the
constitutionality of that statute in an appropriate proceeding.

The statute should be found constitutional

(A) because street cleaning is a traditional government activity in the

state.

(B) because there is a rational basis for restricting employment by the

state to citizens of the United States.

(C) because the job the plaintiff applied for appears to involve policy-
making functions and includes broad discretion in the execution of
public policy.

(D) unless employment by the state is found to be a fundamental right.

72. A shoe company sued an athlete in federal district court in State A. The

case was tried in front of a jury.

Which of the following statements is correct?

(A) The jury must have at least five members.

(B) The jury can have no more than nine members.

(C) A jury can hear the case if the company seeks an injunction.

(D) The jury verdict must be unanimous.

73. A woman, a citizen of State A, sued a company for violations of the

federal National Labor Relations Act in federal district court in State
A. The company was incorporated in State B and had most of its
factories in State A (including the factory where the woman's claim
arose). The company president and most of its decision-makers
worked in an office in State C just across the border from State B. The
woman claimed $80,000 in damages.

Does the federal district court in State A have subject matter
jurisdiction over the claim?

(A) No, because most of the company's factories are in State A.

(B) No, because the woman's claim arose from a company factory in

1126

State A.

(C) Yes, because the woman is suing under the National Labor

Relations Act.

(D) Yes, because the company president and most of its decision-

makers work in an office in State C.

74. The defendant kept a pet cougar in a yard that was surrounded by a
wire chain-link fence. The plaintiff, who lived in the vicinity,
frequently walked on the public sidewalk adjacent to the defendant's
yard. One day, while the plaintiff was standing on the public sidewalk
looking at the cougar through the defendant's fence, the cougar sprang
toward the plaintiff. Because the fence was badly deteriorated, it
collapsed under the cougar's weight and fell on the plaintiff, inflicting
serious injuries. The defendant knew the fence was in need of repair.

If the plaintiff asserts a negligence claim against the defendant as a
result of her injuries, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the keeping of a wild animal is prima facie

negligent.

(B) the plaintiff, because a reasonable person in the defendant's

position would have repaired the fence.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant knew that the fence was in need

of repair.

(D) the defendant, because the plaintiff assumed the risk by standing by

the fence and looking at the cougar.

75. On March 1, a farmer entered into a written contract with the worker.
By its terms, the worker agreed to plow the farmer's fields by April 1,
using the worker's own tractor. In return, the farmer promised to pay
$2,000 upon completion of the work. On March 25, while the worker
was plowing the farmer's field, her tractor broke down. The worker
informed the farmer that because the tractor needed extensive repairs,
it would be impossible to finish the job by April 1 unless she rented
another tractor. The worker said that she could rent one for $600, but
she would not do so unless the farmer agreed to add the rental charge
to the worker's fee for preparing the field. The farmer agreed without
complaint, afraid that the value of his crop would be reduced if the
field was not plowed in time. The worker returned to work after
renting a tractor for $600.

1127

After the worker finished plowing the farmer's field, however, the
farmer refused to pay her any more than $2,000.

If the worker asserts a claim against the farmer on account of the
farmer's promise to pay an additional $600 for the rental of a tractor,
which of the following would be the farmer's most effective argument
in defense?

(A) The farmer's promise to pay for the tractor rental was not in

writing.

(B) The farmer's promise to pay for the tractor rental was unsupported

by consideration.

(C) The farmer's promise to pay for the tractor rental was induced by

economic duress.

(D) The farmer detrimentally relied on the worker's original promise to
complete plowing of the field by April 1 at a price of $2,000.

76. A landowner conveyed a parcel of land “to my son for life, remainder
to my daughter.” Two years later, without the landowner's permission,
the son quitclaimed all of his interest in the land to his wife.

What is the state of the land's title?

(A) Life estate in daughter, remainder in fee simple to landowner.

(B) Fee simple absolute in daughter.

(C) Life estate per autre vie in wife, remainder in fee simple in

daughter.

(D) Life estate in wife, remainder in fee simple in daughter.

77. A man went to a car dealer. The dealer showed him a car that he said

was “brand new.” The man checked the odometer, which showed it had
been driven 10 miles, and checked the interior and engine, which
looked new. After the man bought the car for $2,000 less than the
suggested list price, he discovered the car was actually a used car that
had been completely submerged in a flood. On further investigation, he
learned the car dealer had rolled back the odometer back from 10,000
miles and had covered up the flood damage with paint.

What crime, if any, can the car dealer be charged with?

(A) Larceny by trick.

1128

(B) False pretenses.

(C) Embezzlement.

(D) No crime.

78. In determining what law to apply in a case brought in federal court
based on diversity, which of the following statements is incorrect?

(A) A court of appeals should defer to a district court's decision

regarding unsettled state law.

(B) A district court should apply the substantive law of the state in

which it sits.

(C) A district court should apply federal procedural law.

(D) A district court should apply the statute of limitations rules of the

state in which it sits.

79. A police officer was walking by a home when he heard screaming. The
officer ran to the front door, announced himself, and then entered the
house. When he went into the kitchen, the officer saw a large amount of
cocaine and a scale sitting in an open kitchen cupboard. He placed
both of the men under arrest.

At their trial for drug crimes, the men argued that the court should
suppress the evidence against them because their arrests were the
result of a warrantless search. What result?

(A) The evidence should be suppressed because the warrantless entry

violated the men's Fourth Amendment rights.

(B) The evidence should not be suppressed because the officer could
enter the premises without a warrant based on the plain view
doctrine.

(C) The evidence should not be suppressed because there were exigent

circumstances supporting the officer's warrantless entry.

(D) The evidence should not be suppressed because there was

probable cause for the officer to enter the premises to make the
arrests.

80. A lumber supplier entered into a contract with a new home builder.
The contract stated that the builder would purchase all the wood
required by the builder for new homes he was building in 2013, but

1129

that in no event would the amount be less than 20,000 board-feet of
wood. In making the agreement, neither party contemplated a decline in
new home starts. After the agreement, new home starts fell
dramatically. As a result, the builder informed the supplier he would
not be ordering any wood in 2013.

The supplier sued the builder for damages. At trial, the builder tried to
testify that in the home-building industry it was generally understood
that minimum requirements set forth in contracts for the supply of
wood were of no effect when new home starts fell dramatically. The
supplier objected. Should the builder's testimony be admitted?

(A) Yes, because evidence of a regularly observed business practice
may be offered to explain the terms of a written agreement.

(B) No, because the written agreement was intended by the parties to

be a final expression of their agreement.

(C) No, because the parties did not contemplate a decline in new home

starts.

(D) No, because the fact that the parties specified a minimum

requirement of 20,000 board-feet shows that they did not intend to
be bound by any preexisting industry standards.

81. A local newspaper published an editorial claiming that the majority of
firefighters at the local fire department were dangerously out of shape
and had recently failed their physicals. Following publication, several
firefighters sued the newspaper for defamation.

All parties agree that the newspaper lacked actual malice in making
the statement and that this is the only defense raised by the newspaper.
Which of the following arguments would be most likely to result in a
judgment for the newspaper?

(A) There is no such thing as a false idea.

(B) The plaintiffs were in a position of apparent control over public

affairs.

(C) The editorial and resulting lawsuit made the public familiar with

the plaintiffs.

(D) The plaintiffs were public employees.

82. The plaintiff, a manufacturer of police equipment, obtained a patent for

1130

a bulletproof vest made entirely of recycled aluminum cans. On April
1, a police department entered into a written contract with the plaintiff
providing for the purchase and sale of 30 of the plaintiff's bulletproof
vests per month for the next year at a specified price. For the following
three months, both parties performed as required by the agreement. On
July 5, soon after the third delivery, the plaintiff's only factory burned
completely to the ground without any fault on the part of the plaintiff.
On July 10, officials of the police department wrote to the plaintiff,
asking whether the plaintiff would continue to deliver as agreed. When
the plaintiff failed to respond within a reasonable time, the police
department entered into an agreement with another company for the
purchase of 30 bulletproof vests per month.

After the police department contracted with another company for the
purchase of bulletproof vests, the plaintiff delivered 30 bulletproof
vests to the police department, but the police department refused to
accept them. If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the police
department for breach of contract, which of the following would be the
police department's most effective argument in defense against that
claim?

(A) The destruction of the plaintiff's factory reasonably appeared to

frustrate the purpose of the contract between the police department
and the plaintiff.

(B) The plaintiff's failure to respond to the police department's letter of

July 10 resulted in a prospective inability to perform.

(C) The plaintiff's contract with the police department was divisible.

(D) The police department's contract to purchase bulletproof vests from

another company was a repudiation of its contract with the
plaintiff.

83. A group of teenagers hired a stretch limousine for their prom. While

driving to the prom, the limousine driver saw a dog crossing the road
in front of the vehicle. He swerved to avoid it and ended up crashing
into a tree. Several of the teenagers were injured. A state statute
required that all limousine drivers carry at least a $100,000 minimum
accident liability policy. The limousine driver was uninsured. If the
limousine driver is found liable for the teenagers' injuries, it will be

(A) under the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, because an accident like

this would not normally occur without negligence.

1131

(B) under the doctrine of negligence per se, because the driver

violated the state insurance statute.

(C) because his conduct in swerving to avoid the dog was

unreasonable.

(D) because he owed a special duty to the teenagers in his care.

84. At the defendant's trial on criminal charges, undisputed evidence
established that the defendant and his friend had planned to take a
certain coat from the victim's shop by threatening the victim with a
pistol carried by the friend; that when they did so, the victim began
shooting at them; and that the friend shot back with his pistol,
intentionally killing the victim.

Testifying on behalf of the prosecution, the friend stated that the
defendant knew that the friend's pistol would be loaded. He also stated
that the victim had handed the defendant the coat; that the friend had
returned his own gun to his pocket; and that he and the defendant were
on their way out of the victim's shop when the victim began shooting at
them.

The defendant testified that the coat in question had previously been
stolen from her by the victim, and that she and the friend were trying to
retrieve it.

Statutes in the jurisdiction define first degree murder as the intentional
unlawful killing of a human being, and second degree murder as the
unintentional killing of a human being by the defendant or an
accomplice during the course of a burglary, robbery, rape, kidnapping,
or arson committed by the defendant.

The jury believes the testimony of the defendant but does not believe
the testimony of the friend. Which of the following would be the
defendant's most effective argument in defense against a charge of
second degree murder?

(A) It was unforeseeable that the victim would begin shooting.

(B) The defendant did not know that the friend's pistol would be

loaded.

(C) The victim's death did not occur during the course of one of the

1132

crimes specified in the applicable statute.

(D) The statute was not intended to impose criminal liability on one

person for the acts of another.

85. On February 1, the landowner conveyed a parcel of realty to his cousin
as a gift. The landowner executed the deed in the presence of a notary
public, and the notary affixed his seal as required by law. On March 1,
after the landowner learned that his cousin had not recorded his title,
the landowner purported to convey the same parcel of realty to his
barber for value. The barber was unaware that the landowner's cousin
held any interest in the realty. On March 15, the landowner's cousin
recorded the deed that he had received from the landowner in
February. On March 17, the barber recorded his deed. In June, the
barber executed a deed conveying the realty to the notary. The notary
immediately recorded the deed.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “Every conveyance of real
estate which shall not be recorded is void as against any subsequent
purchaser of the same real estate in good faith and for a valuable
consideration whose conveyance shall be first duly recorded.” In
litigation between the landowner's cousin and the notary, who should
be declared owner of the realty?

(A) The notary, because the landowner's cousin did not purchase the

realty from the landowner for value.

(B) The notary, because the barber recorded his deed prior to

conveying the realty to the notary.

(C) The landowner's cousin, because the barber recorded his deed after

the landowner's cousin recorded his deed.

(D) The landowner's cousin, because any recording by the barber was

outside the chain of title.

86. One night, the defendant looked out his window and saw a robber

taking something from his garage. The defendant went outside with a
pistol and saw that the robber was already backing down the
defendant's driveway in his getaway car. The defendant yelled, “Stop
or I'll shoot you right through the windshield!” The robber stopped and
started to get out of the car with a large axe in his hand. Before the
robber could get to his feet, the defendant shot the robber in the head,
killing him instantly. The defendant was charged with manslaughter. At

1133

trial, the defendant claimed he acted in self-defense. If the defendant is
found guilty of manslaughter, it will because

(A) the harm being defended against was not reasonably imminent.

(B) the defendant used more force than necessary.

(C) the robber had already withdrawn.

(D) the defendant provoked the robber.

87. A man's brother went away for a week on business. The man agreed to
stay in his brother's apartment to watch his dogs. While he was staying
in the apartment, he smoked marijuana several times. The neighbors
called the police to complain about the marijuana smell and told the
police the owner was away. The police went to the apartment and
knocked on the door. When the man answered the door, the police
forced their way in. Once they entered the apartment, they immediately
saw a large amount of marijuana on the kitchen table and arrested the
man. At trial, the man argued that the search of the apartment was
unlawful and the marijuana should be suppressed.

How should the court rule?

(A) The evidence should be suppressed, because the man was staying

at the apartment for a week.

(B) The evidence should not be suppressed, because the police officers

saw the marijuana in plain view.

(C) The evidence should not be suppressed, because the neighbors

smelled the marijuana.

(D) The evidence should not be suppressed, because the man did not

own the apartment.

88. The landowner was the owner of a parcel of realty on which there

were several buildings and a gold mine. The landowner lived in one of
the buildings and personally worked the gold mine, earning a
comfortable living by selling the gold that he removed. The other
buildings were vacant. When the landowner died, his will devised the
realty “to my best friend, but if my best friend should die without issue
from his wife, to my accountant.” Soon after the landlord's death, the
landowner's friend entered into a contract with a mining company.
Pursuant to the contract, the company was to work the gold mine for 10
years and to pay the landowner's friend 50 percent of the gross

1134

proceeds from the sale of gold removed from the mine. In addition, the
landowner's friend leased all the buildings on the realty to the company
for 10 years for use by the company employees as living quarters. He
never had any children with his wife.

His wife died two years later, and the accountant then demanded that
the landowner's friend pay the accountant all funds that the friend
would subsequently receive from the company as proceeds of the
company's gold mining operation on the realty and as rent on the
buildings. The accountant is entitled to receive

(A) proceeds of the gold mining operation only.

(B) rent on the buildings only.

(C) proceeds of the gold mining operation and rent on the buildings.

(D) neither the proceeds of the gold mining operation nor rent on the

buildings.

89. A concert promoter sued a rock singer for breach of contract in federal
district court after the rock singer failed to perform at a charity concert
in State A. The federal district court ruled in favor of the rock singer,
finding his signature had been forged on the contract. The concert
promoter appealed, arguing the signature was really the rock singer's.

What standard of review should the appellate court use?

(A) De novo, because the validity of the signature is a question of law.

(B) Clearly erroneous, because the validity of the signature is a

question of fact.

(C) Abuse of discretion, because the validity of the signature is a

question of law.

(D) Abuse of discretion, because the validity of the signature is a

question of fact.

90. At the defendant's trial on a charge of rape, the victim testified that on
March 1, the defendant forced her to have sexual intercourse with him
against her will. Testifying in his own defense, the defendant admitted
that he had engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim on that date,
but he claimed that the victim had consented. The defendant stated
further that the victim had not accused him of rape until April 3, when
she discovered that he was married and was living with his wife.

1135

The prosecutor subsequently called the victim's neighbor to the stand.
The neighbor testified that while she was conversing with the victim
on March 7, the victim suddenly burst into tears and told her that she
had been raped by the defendant a week before. Upon objection by the
defendant's attorney, the neighbor's statement should be

(A) admitted, because the victim's statement was an excited utterance.

(B) excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(C) admitted, because it contradicts the defendant's claim that the

victim did not accuse him of rape until she learned that he was
married.

(D) admitted, because the victim's statement was a present sense

impression.

91. A woman was the owner of a parcel of realty on which she lived with
her husband. The woman was admitted to a hospital following a severe
heart attack. While her husband was visiting her in the hospital, the
woman said, “I know I'm dying, and I want to be sure that you have the
land after I'm gone. Please have our lawyer take care of it.” The
following day, the husband asked the family attorney to prepare a
quitclaim deed to the land for execution by the woman. The husband
brought the document to the woman in the hospital, where she executed
it according to the requirements of law. After signing the quitclaim
deed, the woman handed the document to the husband and said, “Please
put it in the safe deposit box at the bank.” The husband did so but never
recorded the quitclaim.

The woman subsequently recovered from her heart attack and was
moved from the hospital to a rest home, where she resided until 30
years later, when she died from other causes. At the woman's request,
the husband continued to occupy, maintain, and pay taxes on the land
throughout that period of time. During the last nine years of her life in
the rest home, the woman was attended by a nurse. When the woman
died, her will purported to leave the land “to my faithful nurse.” The
husband and the nurse subsequently asserted conflicting claims to the
land.

Which of the following arguments would be most likely to lead to a
judgment for the nurse?

(A) The husband did not record the quitclaim.

1136

(B) A quitclaim deed is relevant only in disputes between grantor and

grantee.

(C) No warranties of seisin or quiet enjoyment are created by a

quitclaim deed.

(D) The woman did not intend for the quitclaim to be effective until

after her death.

92. A boy decided to play a prank on his babysitter. He took one of his

play swords and swung it at his babysitter's head, acting like he was
going to hit her (although he had no intention of doing so). The
babysitter raised her arms in defense. At the same moment, the boy's
little sister walked out of the bathroom, saw her brother swinging the
sword, and ducked, thinking she was about to be hit by the sword. Due
to a manufacturing defect in the sword, the blade flew off and struck
the babysitter in the head. Which statement is most correct?

(A) The boy could not be held liable for battery of the babysitter

because he did not have the necessary intent.

(B) The boy's sister could claim assault under the doctrine of

transferred intent.

(C) Since the boy only intended to frighten the babysitter, he did not

have the necessary intent for assault.

(D) Because the boy did not bear malice or hostility toward the

babysitter, he could not be held liable for battery.

93. On March 1, the buyer, a well-known collector of antique automobiles,
mailed to a newspaper an advertisement that read, in part: “I will pay
$100 for information leading to purchase of an antique car.” On March
2, before the advertisement appeared in the newspaper and without
knowing about it, the seller phoned the buyer collect and offered to sell
him an antique car. The advertisement was published on March 3.

On March 3, a man saw the advertisement and remembered meeting
someone who owned an antique car. After calling a few friends, the
man obtained the owner's name and address and mailed it to the buyer
with a request for the $100 reward.

On March 4, the buyer looked at the seller's antique car and purchased
it. Later that day, the buyer mailed to the newspaper for publication a
second advertisement that in part read: “No reward for antique car. I

1137

hereby withdraw my previous request for information about an antique
car.” The second advertisement did not appear in the newspaper until
March 6.

On March 5, the buyer received the man's letter, but discarded it
because he had purchased the seller's antique car.

If the man asserts a claim against the buyer for $100, the court should
find for

(A) the buyer, because he mailed the second advertisement before

receiving the man's letter.

(B) the buyer, because the man's letter did not lead to the purchase of an

antique car.

(C) the man, because he mailed the letter to the buyer before the buyer

purchased an antique car.

(D) the man, because the buyer received the man's letter before the

second advertisement was published.

94. A man who suffered from severe skin allergies purchased a topical

cream online. A statute required the drug manufacturer to insert into the
cream's packaging a warning of its potential adverse side effects. The
manufacturer failed to insert an appropriate warning of a particular
side effect, skin discoloration, into the cream's packaging. The man
used the cream for several months until his skin began to turn a dark
blue color. Even though the man continued to use the cream, the man
sued. At trial, the man testified that neither he nor anyone in his
household ever read warnings that accompanied drugs.

How should the court rule?

(A) In favor of the manufacturer, because no one in the man's household

read drug warnings.

(B) In favor of the manufacturer, because the man continued to use the

cream.

(C) In favor of the man, because the manufacturer violated the statute by

failing to include the warning.

(D) In favor of the man, because the type of harm caused could have

been avoided by an adequate warning.

1138

95. A seven-year-old girl was admitted to a hospital unconscious. Doctors

who examined her asked the girl's parents to consent to a blood
transfusion for the girl, stating that the girl would probably die
otherwise. The girl's parents refused, saying that they did not believe in
blood transfusions.

A state statute provides that if a child is admitted to a hospital with a
life-threatening disease or injury, and the parents of that child refuse to
consent to treatment that in the opinion of hospital officials is
necessary to save the child's life, the court shall designate the hospital
administrator to act as the child's guardian for the purpose of
consenting to such treatment. The hospital administrator immediately
commenced a proceeding in a state court to have herself declared the
girl's guardian under that statute. The girl's parents petitioned a federal
court to enjoin the state court from granting the hospital administrator's
application on the ground that the state law is unconstitutional on its
face. Prior to the disposition of either proceeding, the girl died.

If the proceeding instituted by the girl's parents is dismissed, it will
most likely be because

(A) the girl's death has turned the controversy into a non-justiciable

political question.

(B) the girl's death has made the proceeding moot.

(C) the court lacks jurisdiction under the Eleventh Amendment.

(D) the issues are not ripe since the highest state court has not yet ruled

on the constitutionality of the statute.

96. Because of a deficit in the city budget, the city institutes a “pay-to-

throw” system where people must buy special trash bags if they want
to throw out their trash. The bags cost $2 a piece, and are burdensome
on low-income families. If a person or organization with standing
challenges the new system, its constitutionality will be based on

(A) whether the new system has a rational basis.

(B) whether it is necessary to serve a compelling interest of the state.

(C) whether it is found to interfere with a fundamental right.

(D) whether it is found to discriminate against a discrete class of

persons.

1139

97. A man was at the beach when he saw a small dog being washed out to
sea. He jumped into the ocean and rescued the dog. As soon as the man
and the dog were back on the beach, the dog's owner ran up to the man
and said, “That's my prize show dog! I promise to pay you $1,000 for
rescuing him!” The man accepted. In celebration, the man bought
himself a new motorcycle on credit based on his expected reward
money. Several months passed, and the man called the dog's owner to
ask when he might be paid so he could pay off the motorcycle. The dog
owner refused to pay the $1,000 he had promised, claiming it was
unsupported by any consideration. Which of the following would be
the man's most effective argument in support of his claim?

(A) The dog owner's promise was given in exchange for the man's

rescue of his dog.

(B) The dog owner was morally obligated to compensate the man for

rescuing his dog.

(C) Allowing the dog owner to avoid compensating the man for
rescuing the dog would unjustly enrich the dog owner.

(D) The man detrimentally relied on the dog owner's promise by buying

the motorcycle.

98. At the defendant's trial for murder, the prosecution proved that the

defendant was driving while intoxicated when his car struck another
car, killing all its occupants. The defendant appealed his conviction for
voluntary manslaughter.

Which of the cases below is most applicable as precedent?

(A) Believing that the victim was attacking her, the defendant swung a
tennis racket at the victim, hoping to frighten the victim away but
not meaning to strike the victim with it. The tennis racket struck the
victim in the head, causing his death. At the defendant's trial, over
the defendant's objection, the judge instructed the jury to find the
defendant guilty of involuntary manslaughter if the force used by the
defendant was excessive. The defendant's conviction for
involuntary manslaughter was affirmed.

(B) The defendant's wife was admitted to the intensive care unit of a

hospital following an automobile accident. While visiting her, the
defendant overheard doctors saying that there was no hope of
saving the life of a certain patient who would be in intense pain

1140

and paralyzed for as long as she lived. Mistakenly believing that
they were talking about his wife, the defendant subsequently
smothered her to death with a pillow while she was asleep in the
hospital bed. The defendant was convicted of murder after the
court refused to charge the jury that if the defendant believed that
his wife was hopelessly ill and in intense pain, they could find him
guilty of voluntary manslaughter. The defendant's conviction for
murder was reversed.

(C) While the defendant was robbing a tavern, the bartender attempted

to grab the defendant's gun. During the struggle, the gun
accidentally went off, seriously injuring the bartender. At the
defendant's trial for attempted murder, the court instructed the jury
to return a verdict of not guilty if they found that the defendant did
not intend to cause the bartender's death. The defendant's acquittal
was affirmed.

(D) After the defendant quarreled with her lover, she fired a gun at him
while he was with his wife. The bullet missed the defendant's lover
but struck and killed his wife. At the defendant's trial, it was
established that she fired with the intention of frightening both her
lover and his wife, but that she did not mean to strike either of
them. The defendant was convicted of murder after the court
refused to charge the jury on involuntary manslaughter. The
conviction was affirmed.

99. After receiving a warrant, police officers went to the defendant's

address to arrest him. They arrested the defendant on the street outside
his residence and placed him in a police car. The officers then knocked
on the front door of the house, and the defendant's girlfriend answered.
She gave the officers consent to search a back bedroom she shared
with the defendant “most of the time.” Inside the bedroom, the officers
found drugs and guns.

At trial, the defendant moved to suppress the evidence on the grounds
that his girlfriend had no authority to search the bedroom. How should
the court rule?

(A) Grant the motion, because the girlfriend only shared the bedroom

“most of the time.”

(B) Grant the motion, because by her statements it was clear she was

not the owner of the property.

1141

(C) Deny the motion, because the girlfriend had joint authority over the

bedroom.

(D) Deny the motion, because the police could reasonably believe she

could give consent to search the bedroom.

100. A buyer signed a sales contract to buy a new house from the seller. The
contract stated that it was “subject to and conditional upon the buyer
obtaining a 30-year mortgage from a bank or other lending institution
in the amount of $200,000 at an interest rate of less than 2 percent.”
The buyer went to several banks in the area, but no bank would lend
him the money at an interest rate of less than 2 percent. The seller
offered to set up a private financing plan between the two parties that
would bring the interest rate down to less than 2 percent for the buyer
over the course of the loan. The buyer refused to close the deal. The
seller argued that with the private financing in place, the net result of
the loan was the same and the contract should be enforced.

What is the result of the buyer's failure to obtain an interest rate of less
than 2 percent?

(A) The buyer is discharged from his duty to close the sale.

(B) Since the net result of the private financing is the same, the buyer is

required to close the sale.

(C) The seller can sue the buyer for specific performance to complete

the sale.

(D) The seller can sue the buyer for any damages he suffered under the
contract due to the buyer's failure to obtain a loan at less than 2
percent interest.

ANSWERS
____________________
PRACTICE MBE — A.M. EXAM

1202

PRACTICE MBE — ANSWERS TO A.M.
QUESTIONS

1. D A private citizen or police officer is privileged to use whatever non-
deadly force he or she reasonably believes is necessary to prevent the
escape  of  a  criminal  from  a  crime.  Although  there  is  some  doubt
whether the force used by the man against the robber was reasonable,
or indeed whether it was non-deadly, D is the only argument listed that
could possibly result in an acquittal.

In some jurisdictions, a person defending another against a threat of
immediate bodily harm is privileged to use whatever force the person
being  defended  would  have  been  privileged  to  use.  In  other
jurisdictions,  a  person  defending  another  against  a  threat  of
immediate bodily harm is privileged to use the force that reasonably
appears necessary to the defendant himself or herself. Both A and B
are  incorrect,  however,  because  the  robber  was  in  the  process  of
running away at the time of the man's blow, and therefore the man was
not  defending  the  woman  against  a  threat  of  bodily  harm.  A  person
who  owns  or  is  in  charge  of  property  may  use  reasonable  force  to
protect it. This may privilege the use of force to stop a person who is
in the process of unlawfully carrying that property off. C is incorrect,
however,  because  the  man  was  not  the  owner  or  custodian  of  the
woman's handbag and therefore had no privilege to protect it.

2. D Under FRE 611(b), as well as the common law majority rule, cross-
examination  is  limited  to  matters  to  which  the  witness  testified  on
direct  examination.  Because  the  witness  did  not  testify  about  the
contract,  the  question  asked  by  the  defendant's  attorney  probably
exceeds the scope of cross-examination. Since the trial court is given
discretion  in  determining  how  far  the  scope  of  cross-examination
extends, it is not certain that the court would sustain the objection on
this ground. Of all the arguments listed, however, the one set forth in D
is  the  only  one  that  could  possibly  be  effective  in  support  of  the
objection.

A is incorrect for two reasons: First, the witness was called by the
plaintiff, and therefore she is not the defendant's witness, and second,
under  FRE  607,  a  party  may  impeach  its  own  witness.  A  leading
question  is  one  that  contains  a  suggestion  that  would  cause  the
ordinary  person  to  believe  that  the  questioner  desires  one  answer

1203

instead of another. B  is  incorrect  because  the  question  asked  by  the
defendant's attorney contains no such suggestion and because leading
questions  are  permitted  on  cross-examination.  Argumentative
questions are those that are used to emphasize some point to the jury
rather than to elicit information. Although argumentative questions are
improper,  C  is  incorrect  because  the  question  asked  by  the
defendant's attorney did not seek to emphasize any particular point to
the jury.

3. B For the purpose of discovering weapons or preventing the destruction
of evidence, officers may make an incidental search of a person who
has been lawfully arrested. Thus, if the defendant's arrest was lawful,
the  search  of  her  person  was  lawful  as  an  incident  to  that  arrest.  An
officer may make an arrest without a warrant if there is probable cause
to believe that the person arrested has committed or is in the process
of committing a felony. Thus, if the defendant's proximity to the trunk
gave  the  officers  probable  cause  to  believe  that  she  was  guilty  of
possessing cocaine, her arrest and incidental search were lawful.

Probable cause means a belief that the defendant is guilty, supported
by  facts  that  would  lead  a  reasonable  person  to  entertain  such  a
belief. While it is not certain that the officers had probable cause to
believe  the  defendant  guilty,  the  argument  set  forth  in  B  is  the  only
one  listed  that  might  provide  the  prosecution  with  an  effective
argument in response to the defendant's motion.

It  is  sometimes  said  that  evidence  discovered  by  violating  a
defendant's rights is inadmissible because it is “fruit of the poisonous
tree.” A is incorrect because evidence so classified is excluded, not
admitted. Many states hold that officers executing a warrant to search
premises  are  entitled  to  frisk  all  persons  present  for  weapons.  The
frisk,  however,  consists  of  a  patting  down  of  the  outside  of  the
clothing and does not justify reaching into pockets unless the patdown
has  revealed  something  that  feels  like  a  weapon.  Since  there  is  no
indication that the bag of marijuana felt like a weapon, C is incorrect.
D  is  incorrect  because  although  a  warrant  to  search  premises  might
authorize a search of persons present, it does not justify their arrest
unless there is probable cause to believe that they have committed or
are committing a felony.

4.  D  To  be  enforceable,  a  contract  requires  mutuality  of  assent.  If  both
parties are mistaken about a basic assumption of their agreement (i.e.,

1204

there  is  a  bilateral  mistake),  there  is  no  mutuality  of  assent  and  no
enforceable  agreement  can  be  formed.  Both  the  seller  and  the  buyer
believed  that  they  were  contracting  for  the  purchase  and  sale  of  one
parcel of realty, when in fact the written contract identified a different
parcel of realty. Their bilateral mistake thus prevented the mutuality of
assent necessary to make their “contract” enforceable.

If  the  mistake  had  been  the  seller's  alone  (i.e.,  unilateral),  it  would
not have prevented the formation of a contract unless the buyer knew
or  should  have  known  about  it.  For  this  reason,  if  the  buyer  had
known that the parcel described in the writing (#341) had a building
on  it,  while  the  parcel  that  he  had  inspected  (#241)  did  not,  the
seller's mistake would have prevented the formation of a contract. A
is incorrect, however, because the buyer did not know this at the time
the  writing  was  signed.  If  the  only  mistake  in  the  formation  of  a
contract is made by an intermediary chosen by one of the parties, that
mistake is charged to the party who selected the intermediary. (If, for
example, the attorney had said, “My client wants to buy #341,” and
the seller and the buyer had agreed on a price for #341, then the buyer
would  have  been  obligated  to  buy  #341  because  his  unilateral
mistake would not have prevented the formation of a contract.) In this
case,  however,  the  error  was  bilateral  —  both  the  seller  and  the
buyer  believed  that  they  were  contracting  for  the  purchase  of  a
different parcel. For this reason, B is incorrect. C is incorrect for two
reasons: First, if the seller's mistake had been unilateral, the fact that
she would suffer a substantial loss as a result would not be enough to
free  her  of  obligations  under  the  contract,  and  second,  the  bilateral
mistake  regarding  a  basic  assumption  of  the  contract  prevented  the
formation of an enforceable contract for the sale of #341 whether it
was more valuable than #241 or not.

5.  D  The  First  Amendment  prohibits  laws  that  interfere  with  the  free
exercise  of  religion.  A  law  that  makes  a  benefit  available  to  some
people  but  denies  it  to  others  because  of  their  religious  affiliations
may violate this provision because it imposes a burden on the exercise
of  a  religious  belief.  In  1978,  the  United  States  Supreme  Court
specifically  held  (McDaniel  v.  Paty,  435  U.S.  618  (1978))  that  a
statute  that  prohibited  members  of  the  clergy  from  running  for  public
office  was  invalid  for  this  reason.  Even  without  this  decision,
however, the argument set forth in D is the only one listed that could
possibly support the plaintiff's position.

1205

Although a state may not set qualifications for state office that violate
rights  protected  by  the  United  States  Constitution,  there  is  no
constitutional  requirement  that  qualifications  for  state  office  be
consistent  with  qualifications  for  federal  office.  A  is  therefore
incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  statute  in  question  does  not
attempt to set qualifications for practicing members of the clergy. C is
incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  although  the  creation  of  political
divisiveness along religious lines may make a law invalid under the
Establishment  Clause,  this  is  not  relevant  to  rights  protected  by  the
Free Exercise Clause, and second, prohibiting members of the clergy
from holding public office is not likely to have that effect.

6. A If the long-arm statute of the state in which the federal district court sits
permits a certain type of service against an out-of-state defendant, the
federal district court will permit that type of service as well. See Fed.
R. Civ. P. 4(e)(1).

Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.

7.  C  The  privilege  of  self-defense  excuses  a  defendant  from  criminal
liability when he or she is using reasonable force to protect himself or
herself  against  the  commission  of  a  crime.  One  is  never  justified  in
using  deadly  force  in  self-defense,  however,  unless  he  or  she
reasonably  believes  that  he  or  she  is  in  imminent  danger  of  death  or
great  bodily  injury.  The  defendant  was  not  justified  in  slapping  the
victim's  face;  however,  if  the  victim  exceeded  his  privilege  of  self-
defense when he began loading his pistol in apparent retaliation, this
made him the aggressor. If the defendant then had a reasonable (even
though mistaken) belief that his life was in danger, he was justified in
using deadly force to defend himself.

During the course of a fight, the role of aggressor may shift from one
person  to  the  other.  Although  a  person  is  not  privileged  to  defend
himself or herself against a privileged (i.e., reasonable) response to
his or her own aggression, he or she is privileged to defend himself
or herself against an unprivileged attack. Although the defendant was
the  initial  aggressor,  he  may  have  been  privileged  to  use  force  to
defend himself against the victim's response to the slap if the victim's
response was excessive (i.e., unprivileged). A is therefore incorrect.
What force is reasonable in self-defense depends not so much on the
facts as upon the way the facts were perceived by the defendant and
how they would have been perceived by the reasonable person in the

1206

defendant's  position.  Thus,  even  in  jurisdictions  that  require  a
defendant to make reasonable attempts to escape before using lethal
force in self-defense, the fact that the defendant could have escaped
would  not  be  relevant  unless  the  reasonable  person  in  his  shoes
would  have  realized  that.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect
because  a  determination  of  what  force  is  reasonable  in  self-defense
depends  on  the  state  of  mind  of  the  defendant,  not  on  that  of  the
victim.

8.  A  Under  the  collateral  source  rule,  sums  that  a  plaintiff  receives  from
anyone  other  than  a  tortfeasor  or  a  tortfeasor's  representative  are  not
relevant in determining the amount of damages to which the plaintiff is
entitled.  This  is  because  a  benefit  that  is  given  to  an  injured  person
should not be used to the advantage of the person who injured him or
her. Since the insurance company paid under a policy that the plaintiff
had purchased, the defendant should not derive a benefit from it by the
reduction of damages that he is required to pay.

If  a  plaintiff  has  received  payment  from  a  tortfeasor  (e.g.,  in
settlement),  the  amount  of  such  payment  may  be  deducted  from  the
plaintiff's  damage  to  reduce  the  liability  of  other  tortfeasors.  B  is
incorrect  since  this  is  true  whether  or  not  such  payment  was  made
pursuant  to  a  judicial  determination.  C  is  incorrect  under  the
collateral source rule for the reasons stated above. Ordinarily, when
one joint tortfeasor pays more than his or her fair share of a judgment,
he or she is entitled to recover part of it from other joint tortfeasors.
Some  jurisdictions  base  this  recovery  on  equal  apportionment,
referring  to  it  as  “contribution”  between  joint  tortfeasors.  Other
jurisdictions  base  this  recovery  on  the  relative  fault  of  the  joint
tortfeasors, referring to it as “partial indemnity.” Since the insurance
company was not a joint tortfeasor with the defendant, use of the term
partial indemnity is not applicable. D is therefore incorrect.

9. B Ordinarily,  a  promise  is  not  enforceable  unless  it  was  supported  by
consideration. Consideration is something of value given in exchange
for the promise. Since the defendant gave nothing of value in return for
the plaintiff's agreement to release her, his agreement was unsupported
by  consideration  and  is  therefore  unenforceable.  A  novation  is  an
agreement  to  substitute  the  performance  of  a  third  party  for  that  of  a
promisor coupled with the promisee's express agreement to release the
original  promisor  from  further  obligation.  In  a  novation,  the  third

1207

party's  promise  to  perform  for  the  promisee  is  consideration  for  the
promisee's agreement to release the original promisor. (For example,
X and Y have a contract requiring Y to perform. X, Y, and Z then agree
that  Z  will  perform  instead  of  Y,  and  Y  is  released  from  further
obligation. Z's promise to perform is consideration for X's agreement
to release Y.) A court could find that there was no novation in this case
because  the  daughter's  promise  to  perform  had  already  been  made,
and, therefore, it was not given in return for (i.e., as consideration for)
the plaintiff's agreement to release the defendant. While it is not certain
that a court would come to this conclusion, the argument given in B is
the only one listed that might be effective in response to the defendant's
claim.

The  parol  evidence  rule  prohibits  evidence  of  a  prior  or
contemporaneous oral agreement to contradict or modify the terms of
certain  writings.  Since  the  plaintiff's  oral  agreement  to  release  the
defendant was made after  their  written  contract,  the  parol  evidence
rule  does  not  apply  to  it.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  original
contract between the plaintiff and the defendant was for a three-year
period (i.e., could not be performed within a year). For that reason,
the Statute of Frauds required it to be in writing. Since the plaintiff's
agreement  to  release  the  defendant  had  instant  effect,  however,  the
Statute  of  Frauds  does  not  apply  to  it.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.
Accord  occurs  when  contracting  parties  agree  to  substitute  a  new
obligation  for  an  existing  one;  satisfaction  occurs  when  that  new
obligation  is  fulfilled.  Since  the  defendant's  delegation  to  her
daughter did not create any new obligation between the plaintiff and
the  defendant,  it  was  not  an  accord;  thus,  there  could  have  been  no
satisfaction. D is therefore incorrect.

10. A Issue preclusion (also known as collateral estoppel) bars a party from
re-litigating  issues  that  were  actually  litigated  and  necessary  for  the
judgment  in  the  first  action.  Here,  the  doctor's  potential  negligence
was  litigated  in  the  first  case  and  it  was  necessary  to  the  decision
because State A rules stated that any negligence on the doctor's part
would  bar  him  from  recovery.  Since  the  court  found  in  favor  of  the
doctor,  it  necessarily  found  that  the  doctor  was  not  negligent  in  any
way.

B  is  incorrect  because  a  subsequent  action  may  not  necessarily  be
barred even if it arose from the same transaction or occurrence. C is

1208

incorrect because, although the action did not have to be brought as a
compulsory counterclaim, the truck driver could still be collaterally
estopped from forcing the doctor to re-litigate the negligence issue. D
is incorrect because the fact the truck driver is bringing his action in
the same state court would not allow the truck driver to re-litigate the
negligence issue.

11.  B  Freedom  of  association  is  a  corollary  of  the  First  Amendment
freedoms  of  expression  and  assembly.  For  this  reason,  it  has  been
held  that  neither  the  federal  nor  the  state  government  can  impose  a
disability  on  a  person  as  a  result  of  membership  in  an  organization
unless the organization advocates illegal conduct and the person is an
active member who knows the organization's unlawful purposes and
specifically intends to further them. Since the law in question would
impose a disability (i.e., ineligibility for federal employment) solely
because  of  membership  in  an  organization,  without  regard  to
knowledge of the organization's purposes or the intent to further those
purposes, it is unconstitutional.

An ex post facto  law  is  one  that  imposes  a  criminal  penalty  on  the
basis  of  something  that  occurred  before  the  law  was  passed.  Since
the law in question does not impose a criminal penalty, it is not an ex
post  facto  law.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Whether  government
employment is a privilege or a right, ineligibility for it is a disability.
Since  the  disability  cannot  be  constitutionally  imposed  for  mere
membership in an organization, C is incorrect. D may be incorrect for
several  reasons,  but  at  least  because  the  law  does  not  take  into
account the views held by the persons to which it applies.

12. C The  federal  government  is  immune  from  taxation  by  the  states.  It  is
generally  understood,  however,  that  this  immunity  does  not  shield
private  parties  from  state  tax  liability,  even  though  they  have  a
contractual  relationship  with  the  federal  government.  Although
Congress has the power to specifically exempt a particular contractor
from  state  sales  tax  liability,  there  is  no  fact  here  indicating  that
Congress exercised that power.

A  state  attempt  to  regulate  interstate  commerce  may  violate  the
Commerce  Clause  of  the  United  States  Constitution.  A  is  incorrect,
however,  because  a  sales  tax  imposed  on  the  purchase  of  materials
used  to  build  a  bridge  does  not  regulate  interstate  commerce,  even
though  interstate  vehicles  may  eventually  use  the  bridge.  While  the

1209

state  lacks  power  to  tax  the  federal  government,  B  is  incorrect
because so long as it does not discriminate against them, the state is
free to tax persons doing business with the federal government. This
has  been  held  to  be  so  even  though  the  cost  of  such  taxes  may
eventually  be  passed  along  to  the  federal  government  via  cost-plus-
fixed-profit contracts. D is therefore incorrect.

13. A A person seeking to protect a legitimate interest is privileged to make
defamatory  statements  that  he  or  she  reasonably  believes  to  be  true,
under circumstances where the publication is reasonable in its scope.
Clearly, a doctor has a legitimate interest in attempting to prevent the
hiring  of  incompetent  nurses  by  a  hospital.  Since  the  defendant's
response  to  the  personnel  department  questionnaire  was  likely  to
reach only those people who could decide whether or not to hire the
plaintiff,  it  was  probably  reasonable  in  scope.  Also,  because  the
other  doctor  was  a  well-respected  trainer  and  mentor  of  nurses,  it
was likely reasonable to believe his statements regarding the nurse's
competence.  Therefore,  because  the  defendant  reasonably  believed
the statement, it was privileged, and the defendant would not be liable
for defamation.

The publication of a false defamatory statement — unless privileged
— ordinarily results in liability, even though the publisher heard the
statement from another and so indicates when making the statement. B
is  therefore  incorrect.  The  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States  has
held  that  a  plaintiff  who  is  a  public  person  may  prevail  in  a
defamation  action  only  by  proving  that  the  defendant  had  “actual
malice.” C is incorrect, however, because the Court has stated that, in
a defamation action, “actual malice” means that when publishing the
statement,  the  defendant  either  knew  that  it  was  false  or  entertained
serious  doubts  about  its  truth.  C  is  also  incorrect  because  actual
malice alone is not sufficient to result in defamation liability. In some
defamation  actions,  the  plaintiff  must  prove  that  the  defendant's
publication  resulted  in  actual  damage  to  the  plaintiff.  Proof  of
damage,  however,  is  not  sufficient  to  result  in  defamation  liability
where other elements of the plaintiff's case have not been established
or where the defendant was privileged. D is therefore incorrect.

14. D A positive statement by the promisor to the promisee indicating that
the  promisor  will  not  perform  his  or  her  contractual  duty  is  a
repudiation of the contract. Even though performance was not yet due

1210

at the time of repudiation, the non-repudiating party may usually sue
on a theory of anticipatory breach as soon as the repudiation occurs.
Therefore, the seller acquired an immediate right of action as soon as
the buyer communicated that he would not order any boxes in 2012.

A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect for two reasons: First, UCC
the  validity  of  “requirements”
§2-306  specifically  recognizes 
contracts  and  specifies  the  manner  in  which  their  terms  should  be
construed,  and  second,  damages  for  failing  to  order  the  specified
minimum  requirement  could  be  fixed  with  certainty.  A  party  who
seeks  damages  for  breach  of  contract  is  required  to  prove  those
damages;  they  are  not  presumed.  C  is  incorrect  for  this  reason,  and
because — strictly speaking — a repudiation is not a “breach,” but
an “anticipatory breach.”

15. A To prevail in an action for defamation, a plaintiff must prove that the
defendant  published  a  defamatory  statement  about  the  plaintiff.  A
defamatory  statement  is  about  the  plaintiff  if  the  reasonable  person
who  knows  the  plaintiff  would  recognize  the  plaintiff  from  the
statement. For this reason, a defamatory statement made about a group
to  which  the  plaintiff  belongs  identifies  the  plaintiff  so  long  as  the
group is small enough to lead the reasonable person who knows that
the plaintiff is a member of the group to believe that 
the statement about the group is being made about the plaintiff.

The  issue  here  is  what  was  said  in  the  newspaper,  not  whether  the
police  officers  were  engaged  in  their  official  duties  or  not.  This
makes B incorrect. A spoken defamation is called “slander per se” if
it  accuses  the  plaintiff  of  a  crime  of  moral  turpitude,  of  having  a
loathsome disease, of being an unchaste woman, or of being unfit for
the  plaintiff's  occupation.  In  certain  cases  of  slander  per  se,  the
plaintiff  may  be  relieved  of  the  need  to  prove  actual  damage.  C  is
incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the  statement  cannot  be  called
slander  because  it  was  in  writing,  and  second,  calling  a  statement
slander per se does not eliminate the need to prove that the statement
was made about the plaintiff. If the group of police officers present at
the  rally  was  small  enough,  the  statement  about  the  group  identifies
the plaintiffs (for reasons given above) even though it does not name
them. D is therefore incorrect.

16. C If questioning during voir dire reveals a juror is biased, the juror may
be excused for cause. A juror has an actual bias if the juror indicates

1211

he or she would use predetermined beliefs or principles instead of the
facts  presented  to  determine  a  case.  Since  the  woman  stated  she
would have a hard time keeping an open mind because she believed
the  police  habitually  discriminated  against  minorities,  she  can  be
excused for cause.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  question  specifically  asks  about  her
statements. There is no indication any of the attorneys want the juror
dismissed based on her race. B is incorrect because although she said
she had no strong feelings or private knowledge, she did indicate she
had  an  actual  bias  regarding  the  issue  presented  by  the  case.  D  is
incorrect because an implied bias refers to the situation where a juror
states  he  or  she  is  not  biased,  but  an  average  person  in  that  juror's
position would likely be partial to one of the parties (for example, if
one of the parties was related to the juror). Here, the woman stated an
actual bias.

17.  A  Under  FRE  804(b)(2),  a  statement  is  admissible  as  a  dying
declaration if it was made about the cause and circumstances of death
by a presently unavailable declarant with a sense of impending death,
was based upon the declarant's personal knowledge, and is offered at
the  trial  of  a  criminal  homicide  prosecution  or  of  any  civil  action.
Since the plaintiff asked the witness to tell his wife to meet him at the
hospital, it is possible that a court would find that he did not believe
himself to be dying. This conclusion is, of course, not certain (since
he may have been telling her where to claim his body), but A is the
only reason listed that could possibly justify finding that the plaintiff's
statement was not a dying declaration.

B  is  incorrect  because  while  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  (FRE)
require  the  declarant  to  be  unavailable,  it  does  not  require  that  he
have died from the incident described in his statement, or even that he
is  dead.  Although  some  controversy  exists  at  common  law  about
whether a dying declaration is admissible in anything but a criminal
homicide  prosecution,  the  FRE  specifically  permit  its  use  in  a  civil
action.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  common  law  provides  that  an
excited  utterance  may  be  admissible  under  an  exception  to  the
hearsay  rule,  but  only  if  the  statement  was  spontaneous  (e.g.,  not  in
response  to  a  question).  The  FRE  exception  for  excited  utterance
does  not  specifically  mention  spontaneity,  but  some  cases  indicate
that excited utterances should be excluded under the FRE if they were

1212

made  in  response  to  a  question.  D  is  incorrect,  however,  because
neither the common law nor the FRE require that a dying declaration
be made spontaneously.

18. D Under FRE 703, “[i]f experts in the particular field would reasonably
rely  on  those  kinds  of  facts  or  data  in  forming  an  opinion  on  the
subject, they need not be admissible for the opinion to be admitted.”
Consequently,  if  other  experts  in  the  field  would  rely  on  the
maintenance  worker's  statement,  the  expert  may  do  so  even  if  it  is
inadmissible. Therefore, A is incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  the  expert  did  not  interview  the
maintenance  worker  herself  does  not  change  the  analysis.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  expert's  use  of  the  statement  in  her  testimony
does not change the inadmissible statement to an admissible one.

19.  A  Although  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  interprets  the  federal
constitution, it does not have the power to interpret state constitutions.
Therefore, if it reviewed the decision of the state court, it could not
disturb  the  holding  that  the  due  process  requirement  of  the  state
constitution  was  violated.  Since  that  holding  alone  is  sufficient  to
support  the  state  court's  finding  on  behalf  of  the  plaintiff  (i.e.,  the
finding  is  based  on  an  adequate  and  independent  state  ground),  the
United  States  Supreme  Court  lacks  the  power  to  overturn  the  state
court decision. For this reason, review by the United States Supreme
Court is not available. B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

20. D Under FRE 803(22), a judgment of conviction may be admissible as
an exception to the hearsay rule. For any evidence to be admissible,
however,  it  must  be  logically  and  legally  relevant.  Whether  a  past
conviction for passing bad checks is logically related to any material
issues  in  the  defendant's  prosecution  is  uncertain,  but  there  is  little
doubt  about  the  legal  relevancy  of  such  evidence.  Because  of  its
capacity  for  arousing  prejudice,  evidence  bearing  on  a  person's
character is not admissible as circumstantial evidence that his or her
conduct  on  a  particular  occasion  was  consistent  with  that  character.
Thus,  the  defendant's  conviction  for  passing  worthless  checks  is
inadmissible if offered to support an inference that because he passed
bad  checks  that  time,  it  is  likely  that  he  did  it  again  this  time.  If  the
crime  charged  had  been  committed  in  a  highly  distinctive  way,
evidence  that  the  defendant  previously  used  that  same  distinctive
modus operandus (MO) would tend to establish that he was familiar

1213

with  it.  It  could  be  admissible  since  its  purpose  would  not  be  to
circumstantially  establish  conduct  by  showing  character.  A  is
incorrect, however, because there is no fact indicating that the crime
with which the defendant is now charged and the crime of which he
was  previously  convicted  involved  the  same  distinctive  MO.  Since
the  fact  that  a  person  has  committed  a  crime  involving  dishonesty
suggests that his or her statements are not worthy of belief, evidence
that a witness has been convicted of such a crime may be admissible
for  the  purpose  of  impeaching  that  witness's  credibility.  Since  the
defendant has not testified, however, his credibility is not in question.
B is therefore incorrect.

the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  and 

21. A A fee simple subject to an executory limitation allows for an estate to
pass to a third person upon the happening of a stated event. The third
person who may gain the estate holds an executory interest. However,
the  issue  here  is  that  executory  interests  are  subject  to  the  Rule
Against  Perpetuities.  The  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  states  “No
interest  is  good  unless  it  must  vest,  if  at  all,  not  later  than  21  years
after some life in being at the creation of the interest.” Here, since the
friend's interest might not vest until more than 21 years after all lives
in being at the time the landowner conveyed the interest, the executory
interest  violates 
is  void.
Consequently, the county is simply left with a fee simple absolute. B
is  incorrect  because  of  the  executory  interest's  violation  of  the  Rule
Against  Perpetuities.  C  is  incorrect  because,  although  a  fee  simple
subject  to  a  condition  subsequent  also  takes  into  account  the
happening of a certain event, it does not automatically end when the
event occurs. In addition, it is the grantor, not a third party, who has
the  right  to  take  back  the  property.  Phrases  that  create  a  fee  simple
subject  to  a  condition  subsequent  use  words  such  as  “upon  express
condition  that”  or  “provided  that.”  D  is  incorrect  because  a  fee
simple determinable is created by using phrases such as “so long as”
or “until.” Importantly, the grantor is left with a possibility of reverter
if the stated event occurs.

22. D Title passes immediately from the grantor to the grantee once a deed
is  validly  executed  and  delivered.  Consequently,  returning  or
destroying the deed has no effect on the conveyance. If the landowner
wanted  to  get  the  land  back,  he  should  have  required  his  son  to
execute  and  deliver  a  new  deed  to  him.  Therefore,  A  and  B  are
incorrect.

1214

C  is  incorrect  because  whether  or  not  the  son  made  a  photocopy
wouldn't change the analysis.

23.  D  A  professional  seller  who  supplies  a  defective  product  is  strictly
liable for damage that proximately results from the product's defect. A
defect is a proximate cause of harm if it was both a factual and a legal
cause of it. A defect is a factual cause of harm if the harm would not
have occurred without it. Assuming that the vibrations resulted from a
defect, the defect was a factual cause of the neighbor's injury since the
injury would not have occurred without it. A defect is a legal cause of
harm if the harm was a foreseeable result of the defect, not the result
of unforeseeable interventions (i.e., superseding causes). Thus, if the
intervening  conduct  of  the  woman  was  a  superseding  cause  of  the
harm, then the product defect — although a factual cause of the injury
—  was  not  a  legal  cause  of  it.  Although  it  might  take  a  jury  to
determine  whether  the  woman's  conduct  was  unforeseeable  (i.e.,  a
superseding cause), D is the only argument listed that might result in a
judgment for the store.

If all other requirements are satisfied, strict liability may be imposed
to  benefit  any  plaintiff  whose  contact  with  the  product  was
foreseeable,  regardless  of  whether  the  plaintiff  is  classified  as  a
bystander.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  plaintiff  who  voluntarily
encounters a known risk assumes that risk. B  is  incorrect,  however,
because the woman was not the plaintiff, and only a plaintiff is said
to assume a risk. If the processing machine was defective when it left
the  company's  factory,  the  company  might  be  strictly  liable  for  the
neighbor's injuries that proximately resulted. C is incorrect, however,
because  if  the  product  was  defective  when  it  left  the  company's
factory, it must have been defective when it left the store's premises,
making the store strictly liable as well.

24. D A statutory system of classification that regulates social or economic
interests is valid under the Equal Protection Clause if it has a rational
basis. On the other hand, if it discriminates against a suspect class of
persons, it is valid only if it is necessary to serve a compelling state
interest. (Note: To withstand a constitutional challenge based on the
claim that a statute interferes with a fundamental right, the statute must
be necessary to serve a compelling state interest. Since the plaintiff's
challenge  is  not  based  on  that  claim,  however,  the  compelling  state
interest  standard  does  not  apply.)  Although  it  has  been  held  that  a

1215

statutory classification based on gender does not discriminate against
a  suspect  class,  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  developed  a
third,  or  middle,  level  of  scrutiny  (sometimes  called  “rational  basis
with  a  bite”)  for  such  classifications.  It  has  been  held  that  gender
classifications  are  valid  only  if  they  are  substantially  related  to  an
important governmental interest. Since the plaintiff's sole claim is that
the statute discriminates against women, the statute would be valid if
it satisfied this middle level of scrutiny. Although it is not certain that
the statute would satisfy the requirements of this test, the argument set
forth  in  D  is  the  only  one  listed  that  might  possibly  be  effective  in
opposition to the plaintiff's claim.

A is incorrect because the fact that a system of classification does or
does not discriminate against a suspect class determines the standard
to  be  applied,  but  it  does  not  itself  determine  whether  the  statute  is
constitutional. B is incorrect because a rational basis is not sufficient
to  make  constitutional  a  statute  that  discriminates  on  the  basis  of
gender. C is incorrect because police powers, like all other powers
of  the  state,  may  not  be  exercised  in  a  way  that  is  inconsistent  with
the United States Constitution.

25. C The terms of a contract may provide that a party's performance is not
required  until  the  happening  of  a  specified  event  (i.e.,  a  condition
precedent). If so, the duty to perform does not become absolute until
that  event  has  occurred  (i.e.,  the  condition  precedent  has  been
satisfied). In this contract, the defendant's duty to make final payment
was  conditioned  upon  the  plaintiff's  obtaining  a  Certificate  of
Satisfactory Completion from the architect prior to July 30. Thus, the
defendant's duty to pay would not become absolute until the plaintiff
satisfied  the  condition  precedent  by  obtaining  the  certificate  by  that
date. It is understood, however, that a party who wrongfully interferes
with  the  other  party's  fulfillment  of  a  condition  may  not  rely  on  that
unfulfilled condition to avoid performing. Sometimes this conclusion
is based on what is referred to as a breach of the “implied promise to
cooperate.”  Sometimes  courts  simply  say  that  wrongful  interference
excuses performance of the condition precedent. Either way, since the
defendant's  request  caused  the  architect  to  delay  issuing  the
certificate,  the  defendant's  duty  to  make  final  payment  may  become
absolute in spite of the plaintiff's failure to fulfill that condition of the
contract.

1216

A  is  incorrect  because  the  architect  was  not  a  party  to  the  contract
between  the  defendant  and  the  plaintiff,  and  that  contract  therefore
could not have imposed duties on the architect. It is sometimes said
that express conditions of a contract must be fully satisfied, but that
“substantial performance” satisfies constructive conditions. Since the
condition requiring the plaintiff to obtain a Certificate of Satisfactory
Completion  by  July  30  was  express,  substantial  performance  would
not  have  been  sufficient.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Sometimes  in  a
contract calling for performance to the satisfaction of the other party,
a dispute arises as to whether that satisfaction is to be subjective or
based  on  objective  standards.  Usually,  in  the  absence  of  a  clear
agreement  to  the  contrary,  the  standard  is  understood  to  be  an
objective one. In this case, however, the express condition required
not only satisfactory completion, but the obtaining of a certificate by a
particular  date.  For  this  reason,  the  application  of  an  objective
standard would not be sufficient to defeat the defendant's claim. D is
therefore incorrect.

26. A One who intentionally aids, abets, or facilitates the commission of a
crime is an accomplice and not only is guilty of the crime that he or
she  aided,  but  also  is  vicariously  liable  for  all  its  reasonably
foreseeable consequences. One who agrees with another to commit a
crime is guilty of conspiracy and is vicariously liable for any crimes
committed by a co-conspirator in furtherance of the conspiracy. Since
the  jury  did  not  believe  the  defendant's  testimony,  the  friend  was
committing a robbery when he used a threat of force to steal the coat
from the victim. Since the defendant assisted him in doing so, she was
an accomplice. Since she agreed to do so, she was a co-conspirator.
As an accomplice, she is probably liable vicariously for the friend's
intentional killing of the victim because her knowledge that the friend
would be using a gun to coerce the victim into handing over the coat
probably made it foreseeable that he would shoot the victim with the
gun.  As  a  co-conspirator,  she  is  vicariously  liable  for  the  shooting
since  it  was  clearly  in  furtherance  of  the  robbery  that  she  agreed  to
commit.

B  is  incorrect  because  being  present  while  a  crime  is  committed  is
not sufficient to make a defendant an accomplice or a co-conspirator.
Self-defense is a privilege to use reasonable force to defend oneself
against the use of force. A person who is being shot at may, therefore,
be  privileged  to  defend  himself  or  herself  by  shooting  back.  C  is

1217

incorrect,  however,  because  self-defense  does  not  privilege  the  use
of  force  in  response  to  force  which  itself  was  privileged  by  self-
defense. Since the friend was menacing the victim with a pistol, the
victim  was  privileged  to  use  a  pistol  in  self-defense.  Since  the
victim's use of force was privileged, the friend was not privileged to
use  any  force  in  defense  against  it.  D  is  incorrect  because  as  a  co-
conspirator and accomplice to the crime of robbery, the defendant is
vicariously 
that  was  a  foreseeable
the  shooting 
consequence and done in furtherance of the robbery.

liable  for 

27. D Since the notary received his interest from the neighbor, the validity
of the notary's title depends on the validity of the neighbor's title. For
this reason, if the neighbor's title is superior to the friend's, then the
notary's title is superior to the friend's. The validity of the neighbor's
title  depends  on  the  recording  statute.  The  statute  given  is  a  typical
“notice”  statute.  According  to  its  provisions,  the  interest  of  a
subsequent grantee for value and without notice is superior to that of a
prior grantee unless the prior grantee's interest was recorded prior to
the time the subsequent grantee received his or her interest. Since the
friend's deed was not recorded prior to the landowner's conveyance
to  the  neighbor,  the  neighbor's  interest  is  superior  to  the  friend's.
Since the notary derives his interest from 
the  neighbor's  grant,  the  notary's  interest  is  also  superior  to  the
friend's.

As a result of this reasoning, it is correct to say that one who derives
his or her interest from a bona fide purchaser for value (i.e., BFP) is
protected by a recording statute even if he or she is not a BFP himself
or herself. Thus, the notary's possible knowledge would not deprive
him of the protection of the recording statute, and A is incorrect. B is
incorrect  because  it  fails  to  take  into  account  the  effect  of  the
recording  statute.  While  the  neighbor  did  purchase  for  value,  he
clearly  executed  a  deed  conveying  the  property  to  the  notary.  C  is
therefore incorrect.

28.  B  Under  the  common  law,  rape  consists  of  sexual  intercourse  with  a
female  not  the  wife  of  the  defendant  without  that  female's  consent.
Under  most  statutory  rape  laws,  a  female  below  a  given  age  is
determined to be incapable of consent, meaning that any male who has
sexual  intercourse  with  her  does  so  without  her  consent.  For  this
reason, knowledge of the victim's age is not ordinarily an element of

1218

statutory  rape.  Under  the  statute  given  in  this  question,  however,
knowledge  of  the  female's  age  is  specifically  required.  For  this
reason, the boy could not be convicted if he did not know that the girl
was under the age of 18 years.

So long as a male defendant is old enough to be convicted of a crime,
he may be convicted of statutory rape even though his age is the same
as or younger than that of the female victim. A is therefore incorrect.
Intoxication  is  a  defense  to  a  criminal  charge  only  if  it  made  the
defendant  incapable  of  possessing  the  necessary  state  of  mind
required. C is incorrect because there is no indication that the boy's
intoxication  affected  his  knowledge  regarding  the  girl's  age  or
prevented  him  from  knowing  that  he  was  having  sexual  intercourse
with  her.  Statutory  rape,  of  which  the  crime  charged  is  a  form,  is
based on the concept that certain persons are incapable of consenting
to  sexual  intercourse.  For  this  reason,  the  victim's  consent  never
furnishes a defense, and D is incorrect.

29. C If a plaintiff brings an action in state court that could have originally
been  brought  in  federal  court,  a  defendant  can  have  it  removed  to
federal court. See 28 U.S.C.§1441. Federal courts have subject matter
jurisdiction over claims where the plaintiff and defendant are citizens
of different states and the amount in controversy is over $75,000. The
man is claiming $100,000, so he meets the jurisdictional amount. He
is also a citizen of State A. A corporation is a citizen of the state it is
incorporated  in  and  a  citizen  of  the  state  where  it  has  its  principal
place of business. Courts determine “principal place of business” by
looking  at  where  the  corporation's  top  management  direct  the
corporation's business activities. Consequently, the moving company
is a citizen of State B based on incorporation, and a citizen of State C
based  on  its  principal  place  of  business.  Thus,  there  is  diversity  of
citizenship between the parties, and the moving company can remove
the  claim  to  federal  court  because  it  could  have  originally  been
brought there.

A is  incorrect  because  the  claim  can  still  be  removed  even  if  it  is
based on State A motor vehicle law. B is incorrect because although
the moving company did 70 percent of its business in State A, it is not
a  citizen  of  State  A.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  company's  belief
federal  subject  matter
regarding 
jurisdiction.

fairness  would  not  create 

1219

30.  C  Although  a  defendant's  violation  of  a  statute  may  help  the  plaintiff
establish  that  the  defendant  was  negligent,  that  negligence  does  not
result  in  liability  unless  it  was  a  factual  and  legal  cause  of  the
plaintiff's  damage.  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm
would  not  have  occurred  without  it.  Since  obeying  the  speed  limit
was more likely to cause the collapse than exceeding it, the accident
would  have  occurred  if  the  statute  had  been  obeyed.  Since  the
collapse  would  have  occurred  without  it,  the  violation  was  not  a
factual cause of the collapse.

In some jurisdictions, the violation of a statute may be negligence per
se; in others, it may raise a rebuttable presumption of negligence; and
in  others,  it  may  merely  raise  an  inference  of  negligence.  A  is
incorrect,  however,  because  negligence  does  not  result  in  liability
unless it was a factual cause of harm, and the defendant's violation of
a statute — even if it establishes negligence — was not a cause of the
plaintiff's  harm.  Although  violation  of  a  statute  may  raise  a
presumption of negligence, it does not result in any presumption as to
causation  and  is  usually  not  relevant  to  issues  of  causation.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  Unless  the  statute  violated  was  designed  to
protect  a  class  of  persons  that  includes  the  plaintiff,  its  violation  is
not  relevant  to  the  question  of  negligence  at  all.  D  is  incorrect,
however,  because  it  is  generally  understood  that  traffic  laws  are  at
least designed to protect other users of the roads.

31. B Since the condition imposed by the landowner's deed prohibited non-
residential use, the buyer's grant of a license to fish does not violate it
if fishing is a residential use. Whether or not this is so is uncertain,
but B is the only argument listed that could possibly provide the buyer
with an effective defense.

Under the Rule Against Perpetuities, no interest is good if it can vest
after a particular period of time. The creation of an interest that might
vest after the period is thus void under the Rule, but the Rule has no
effect on the termination of an existing interest. A is incorrect for this
reason and because the Rule Against Perpetuities is not applicable to
future interests of a grantor. The fee simple determinable and the fee
simple subject to a condition subsequent are possessory interests that
may  be  terminated  on  the  happening  of  a  specified  event.  The  most
important difference between them is that the fee simple determinable
terminates  automatically  on  the  happening  of  that  event,  and  the  fee

1220

simple  subject  to  a  condition  subsequent  does  not  terminate  without
some action being taken. The language of the landowner's deed makes
it difficult to determine which of those interests was conveyed to the
buyer, but the difference is insignificant to the buyer since his interest
is  subject  to  termination  in  either  event.  For  this  reason,  C  is
incorrect.  A  restraint  on  alienation  is  a  condition  that  attempts  to
control the alienability (i.e., power to convey an interest) of realty. If
the condition attempts to do so directly (e.g., the condition prohibits
selling  or  mortgaging  the  realty),  it  may  be  declared  void  under
certain  circumstances.  Although  use  restrictions  are  likely  to  affect
the alienability of realty, policy does not require that they be declared
void  for  this  reason  alone  because  their  effect  is  indirect.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

32. D Ordinarily, specific performance is available as a remedy for breach
of  contract  when  damages  would  not  be  an  adequate  remedy.  For
several reasons, however, courts do not grant specific performance of
contracts  calling  for  personal  service.  These  reasons  include  the
involuntary  servitude  and  of
constitutional  protections  against 
freedom of association, as well as practical considerations that make
it unwise for courts to become unduly involved in the supervision of
performance.  Thus,  if  the  architectural  work  that  remained  to  be
completed  involved  personal  services,  specific  performance  would
not be granted.

A is therefore incorrect. An agreement not to assign usually destroys
the  right  but  not  the  power  to  make  an  effective  assignment.  This
means  that  an  assignment  made  in  the  face  of  such  an  agreement  is
usually  valid,  although  the  assignor  might  be  liable  for  damages
resulting  from  the  assignment  and  from  his  or  her  own  failure  to
perform.  For  this  reason,  damages  are  usually  the  only  remedy
available  for  breach  of  a  promise  not  to  assign.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. C is a misstatement of the above rule. While an agreement
not to assign may destroy the right to make a valid assignment (i.e.,
one who violates it may be liable for breach of contract), it does not
ordinarily  destroy  the  power  to  assign  (i.e.,  an  assignment  made  in
violation of the assignor's promise may be valid). For this reason, C
is  incorrect.  (Note:  The  obligation  to  perform  personal  services  is
not  usually  assignable  or  delegable.  This  rule  is  not  relevant  here,
however,  because  the  question  asks  not  about  the  validity  of  the
assignment,  but  about  the  availability  of  specific  performance  as  a

1221

remedy.)

33. A Under FRE 901(5) (and at common law), a voice may be identified by
any  person  who  testifies  that  he  or  she  recognizes  it  based  upon
hearing the voice under circumstances connecting it with the alleged
speaker. Although the plaintiff may not have known whose voice she
was  hearing  when  she  had  the  telephone  conversation,  if  she
subsequently  heard  the  defendant's  voice  and  recognized  it  as  the
same voice that she heard on the telephone, she is competent to testify
that it was the defendant's voice that she heard on the telephone. This
is true even though her first real opportunity to connect the defendant
with the voice occurred on the morning of trial.

If a person's telephone number is listed in the telephone book, there is
a presumption that one who properly dialed that number reached the
premises  of  the  person  listed.  Under  FRE  901(6),  this  presumption
combined  with  other  circumstances,  including  self-identification  of
the speaker as the person listed, may justify the admission of voice-
identification  testimony  by  a  witness  who  dialed  the  number.  Since
the plaintiff did not look up the defendant's number in the telephone
book  or  dial  it,  the  defendant's  self-identification  is  insufficient  to
make the plaintiff's testimony admissible. B is therefore incorrect. C
is  incorrect  because  the  plaintiff's  subsequent  hearing  of  the
defendant's  voice  is  sufficient  to  make  her  voice-identification
testimony  admissible.  The  fact  that  the  plaintiff  had  not  dialed  the
defendant's number before speaking to him would prevent her voice-
identification testimony from being admissible under the special FRE
provision  discussed  above  regarding  telephone  identifications.  D  is
incorrect, however, because the fact that she recognized the telephone
voice  as  the  defendant's  after  hearing  the  defendant's  voice  in  the
judge's  chambers  is  sufficient  to  make  her  testimony  admissible
without that special provision.

34. D Since the Act prohibits the operation of munitions factories in which
airborne  levels  of  the  chemical  exceed  statutory  standards,  it  would
take a new law to permit the company's factory to operate in violation
of  those  standards.  In  effect,  by  giving  the  Senate  National  Defense
Committee the power to permit such operation, Section 34 purports to
give  it  the  power  to  make  a  law.  Article  I  of  the  United  States
Constitution provides that federal legislation must be passed by both
houses of Congress and then presented to the President for approval.
An  attempt  to  legislate  without  fulfilling  these  requirements  violates

1222

the Constitution.

The committee system in Congress exists, in part, because it enables
certain  questions  to  be  considered  by  bodies  that  have  had  an
opportunity  to  develop  expertise  in  certain  areas.  The  principle  of
bicameralism  established  by  Article  I  prevents  those  committees
from  legislating,  however.  For  this  reason,  A  is  incorrect.  Although
Congress may supervise the activities of administrative agencies that
it has created, the scope of such supervision is, of course, limited by
the provisions of the Constitution. As indicated above, the system of
supervision created by Section 34 exceeds constitutional limitations
because it purports to give a Senate committee the power to legislate.
B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,
Congress  may  authorize  an  administrative  body  to  impose  quasi-
criminal sanctions (although not to create them), and second, Section
34  does  not  give  an  administrative  agency  the  power  to  impose
sanctions but purports to limit that power.

35. B Extortion  consists  of  obtaining  property  from  another  by  threatening
future  harm  to  persons,  property,  or  economic  interests.  Since  the
defendant obtained money from the victim by threatening to blow up
her real and personal property, he can be convicted of extortion.

Robbery  consists  of  obtaining  property  from  another  by  using  or
threatening force against a person. Since the defendant made no threat
of  harm  to  a  person,  A  is  incorrect.  Larceny  by  trick  is  a  larceny
committed  by  making  a  misrepresentation  that  induces  the  victim  to
part with temporary possession of personal property. Since the victim
did  not  expect  her  cash  to  be  returned,  she  was  not  parting  with
temporary  possession  of  it,  and  C  is  incorrect.  Embezzlement  is  a
criminal conversion of personal property by one in lawful custody of
it.  Since  the  defendant  was  not  in  lawful  custody  of  the  victim's
money, D is incorrect.

36. B Article I, Section 10, provides in part that no state shall pass any law
impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts.  This  prevents  states  from
repudiating  their  own  contractual  obligations  or  interfering  with
private  contractual  obligations  except  by  regulations  that  are
reasonable  and  appropriate  to  a  significant  state  purpose.  Since  the
statute  in  question  does  not  result  in  a  repudiation  of  the  state's
contractual  obligations  or 
interfere  with  private  contractual
obligations, it does not violate the Obligation of Contracts Clause.

1223

it  discriminates  against 

The  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits  states  from  invidiously
discriminating.  Since  the  statute  requires  higher  fees  from  non-
residents, 
them.  Although  some  such
discrimination has been held to be valid, it is possible that this statute
is not. A  therefore  could  be  an  effective  argument  in  support  of  the
constitutional  challenge,  making  A  incorrect.  The  Privileges  and
Immunities  Clause  of  Article  IV  of  the  United  States  Constitution
provides  that  “The  citizens  of  each  state  shall  be  entitled  to  all
privileges and immunities of the citizens in the several states.” Since
this  has  been  held  to  prohibit  certain  discrimination  against  out-of-
staters,  C  also  could  be  an  effective  argument  in  support  of  the
constitutional  challenge  and  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  Commerce
Clause  prohibits  the  states  from  discriminating  against  or  imposing
undue burdens on interstate commerce. Violations have been found on
both  grounds  in  laws  that  denied  to  out-of-staters  advantages  that
were available to state residents. For this reason, D also could be an
effective argument and is therefore incorrect.

37.  B  An  assault  is  committed  by  intentionally  inducing  the  plaintiff's
reasonable apprehension of immediate harmful or offensive contact. It
has been held that a threatening act is not an assault if accompanied
by words that make clear that the threat will not be carried out, since
any  apprehension  experienced  by  the  plaintiff  would  not  be
reasonable. It is understood, however, that a defendant is not free to
avoid assault liability by demanding compliance with a condition that
he  or  she  has  no  legal  right  to  impose.  Since  the  defendant  had  no
legal  right  to  require  the  seller  to  back  out  of  his  contract  with  the
buyer, the fact that he told the seller that he could avoid the threatened
harm by doing so would not prevent the defendant from being liable
for assault. B is therefore not an effective argument in the defendant's
defense and is therefore correct.

Since  it  was  obvious  from  the  defendant's  statement  that  the
threatened  harm  would  not  occur  until  sometime  in  the  future,  A
would  be  an  effective  defense  and  is  therefore  incorrect.  Since  the
threat  was  of  harm  to  the  seller's  children  and  not  to  the  seller,  C
would be an effective defense and is therefore incorrect. Courts have
generally argued (although this argument is not always credible) that
apprehension  induced  by  the  defendant's  mere  use  of  words  is  not
reasonable. This has led to a rule that there can be no assault liability
unless the defendant has performed some physical act. D is therefore

1224

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

an effective defense and is therefore incorrect.

38.  C  Although  extrinsic  evidence  of  unconvicted  bad  acts  is  not  usually
admissible  for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  a  person  has  a  bad
character  or  was  inclined  to  commit  other  bad  acts,  such  evidence
may be admissible for other purposes. Proof that a fact is not as stated
by the defendant may be admissible for the purpose of impeachment
(i.e., to show that his or her testimony is not to be believed). If such
proof is extrinsic (i.e., not from the defendant's own mouth) it may be
used  to  impeach,  but  only  if  it  relates  to  a  material  issue  in  the
controversy.  Since  the  defendant  claimed  to  be  1,000  miles  away
from where the crime of arson was committed, his whereabouts on the
day  of  the  crime  are  of  consequence  (i.e.,  material)  in  the  arson
prosecution.  The  witness's  testimony  is  therefore  admissible  to
impeach  the  defendant.  In  general,  evidence  is  admissible  as
substantive proof if it is relevant to some fact of consequence in the
controversy.  Since  the  defendant's  whereabouts  on  the  day  of  the
crime  are  material  to  the  arson  prosecution,  the  witness's  testimony
— which tends to establish that the defendant was in the city on the
day of the fire — is admissible as substantive evidence.

39.  C  Since  a  will  speaks  upon  the  death  of  the  testator,  the  mailman's
interest  was  created  upon  the  death  of  the  landowner.  An  executory
interest  is  a  future  interest  in  a  grantee  that  will  become  possessory
only upon the termination of a prior estate, the termination of which is
not inevitable. Since, according to the devise, the friend's interest was
to terminate only if he died without issue from his wife, and since it
was not inevitable that this would happen, it was executory. Since the
mailman's interest was to replace that of the friend, it was a shifting
interest.

Consequently, A, B, and D are incorrect.

40. D If a claim is brought in federal court based on a question of federal
law, the federal court will also have jurisdiction over any state law
claims  arising  from  the  same  case  or  controversy.  See  Hurn  v.
Oursler,  289  U.S.  238  (1933).  Because  both  the  federal  law  claim
and the breach of contract claim arise from the woman's loss of her
job,  the  federal  court  would  have  jurisdiction  over  the  breach  of
contract  claim  even  if  it  is  based  on  state  law.  Therefore,  A  is
incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  amount  in  the  controversy

1225

requirement for federal question jurisdiction. C is incorrect because
the  saleswoman  would  not  be  able  to  bring  a  claim  against  the
company if it did not arise from the same case or controversy.

41.  A  Under  FRE  609,  evidence  that  a  witness  has  been  convicted  of  a
crime is admissible for the purpose of attacking his or her credibility
under two distinct sets of circumstances. Such evidence is admissible
if the crime was a felony and the court determines that the probative
value outweighs the prejudicial effect to the defendant. Such evidence
is  also  admissible,  however,  if  the  crime  is  one  that  involved
dishonesty.  Since  tax  fraud  is  a  crime  involving  dishonesty,  the
evidence  is  admissible  whether  or  not  the  crime  was  a  felony,  and
without  an  affirmative  finding  that  its  probative  value  outweighs  its
prejudicial effect.

B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

42.  B  In  Wisconsin  v.  Yoder,  406  U.S.  205  (1972),  the  United  States
Supreme  Court  specifically  held  that  in  determining  whether  a
defendant's  conduct  is  privileged  by  First  Amendment  rights  to
freedom of religion, it was proper to consider whether the defendant's
religious beliefs were sincere.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Ordinarily,  a  state  may  prohibit  specified
activities  whenever  such  prohibition  serves  a  rational  basis.  Under
the  Free  Exercise  Clause  of  the  First  Amendment,  however,  a  state
may  not  interfere  with  acts  performed  in  the  exercise  of  religious
beliefs  unless  the  interference  bears  a  rational  relationship  to  a
compelling state interest. This means that there are some acts that the
state  may  validly  declare  to  be  criminal  and  prohibit  because  the
prohibition has a rational basis, but which may still be performed by
persons who are doing so in the exercise of their religious beliefs if
the prohibition does not bear a rational relationship to a compelling
state  interest.  Thus,  First  Amendment  rights  to  freedom  of  religion
might justify acts that would otherwise be criminal. For this reason,
C and D are both incorrect.

43. C The Equal Protection Clause provides that no state shall deny to any
person  within  its  jurisdiction  the  equal  protection  of  the  law.  This
means  that  any  state  agency  that  employs  a  system  of  classification
granting  rights  or  privileges  to  some  persons  while  denying  them  to
others  may  be  violating  rights  conferred  by  the  Equal  Protection
Clause.  Some  systems  of  classification  are  valid  if  they  have  a

1226

rational  basis;  other  systems  are  valid  only  if  they  are  necessary  to
serve a compelling state interest. It is uncertain whether the exclusion
of pregnant students from a public high school system is valid. Of the
fact situations given, however, C is the only one that could possibly
involve a violation of rights granted by the Equal Protection Clause.
This  is  because  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  regulates  only  state
action, and C is the only fact situation involving state action.

The  defendant  in  A  is  employed  by  a  religious  organization.  The
defendant  in  B  is  a  federal  official.  The  defendant  in  D  works  in
private enterprise. Since none of them is an agency of the state, A, B,
and D are incorrect.

is  defective  and  unreasonably  dangerous, 

44. A Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  professional  supplier  of  a  product
that 
that  defect
proximately causes harm to a plaintiff whose contact with the product
was foreseeable. If the reasonable person could not have anticipated
the  plaintiff's  contact  with  the  chemical  (i.e.,  the  plaintiff's  contact
with  it  was  unforeseeable),  strict  liability  cannot  be  imposed  to
benefit the plaintiff.

if 

If the plaintiff's harm was produced by an unforeseeable intervening
event,  the  product  defect  was  not  a  proximate  cause  of  it.  B  is
incorrect,  however,  because  intervening  negligence  may  be  (and
usually is) regarded as foreseeable. If the plaintiff's injury would not
have  occurred  but  for  the  crack  in  the  sewer,  the  crack  was  also  a
cause  of  harm.  The  existence  of  an  additional  cause  of  harm  is  not
sufficient  to  relieve  any  defendant  of  liability,  however,  unless  that
additional cause was unforeseeable. Since there is no indication that
the  crack  in  the  sewer  was  unforeseeable,  C  is  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect  because  strict  products  liability  does  not  depend  on  the
existence  of  a  commercial  relationship  (i.e.,  privity)  between  the
defendant and any other person.

45. D Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(c), if a party wants to amend a pleading to
change  the  party  against  whom  a  claim  is  asserted,  the  amendment
will relate back to the date of the original pleading if the claim arises
out  of  the  same  occurrence  as  the  original  pleading,  so  long  as  the
new party is served within 90 days after the complaint is filed (Fed.
R. Civ. P. 4(m)) and “(i) received such notice of the action that it will
not be prejudiced in defending on the merits; and (ii) knew or should
have known that the action would have been brought against it, but for

1227

a  mistake  concerning  the  proper  party's  identity.”  The  owner  was
served on June 22, so it was within 90 days. Additionally, the man's
amended complaint arose from the same accident and the owner knew
that an action would be brought against him (based on his phone call
to the man). Therefore, B is incorrect.

A is incorrect because it states the wrong deadline for service. C is
incorrect because it is not enough that the claim arose from the same
occurrence. Importantly, the new party must have had some notice or
knew of the likelihood of being sued.

46. C An inter vivos conveyance of realty is not effective without delivery.
Delivery occurs when the grantor, by some words or act, manifests an
intent that the deed have a present operative effect. While the woman
indicated that she wanted to be sure that the husband had the property
after her death, she may have intended the quitclaim deed to transfer
an  interest  immediately.  If,  instead  of  handing  the  document  to  the
husband, she had locked it in a safe deposit box to which only she had
access,  it  would  be  clear  that  she  did  not  intend  an  immediate
transfer. On the other hand, if she simply handed it to the husband, it
would  be  clear  that  she  did  intend  an  immediate  transfer.  Here,
because  she  was  unable  to  leave  the  hospital,  she  could  not
personally place it in a safe deposit box. When she handed it to the
husband  with  the  request  that  he  put  it  in  the  box,  she  may  have
intended  to  “deliver”  it  to  him,  or,  without  intending  any  present
effect, she may have been asking him to lock it away for her since she
was  physically  unable  to  do  so  herself.  From  the  facts  given,  it  is
impossible to determine with certainty what her intention was. If the
safe  deposit  box  was  held  jointly  by  the  woman  and  the  husband,
however,  it  is  likely  that  she  intended  an  immediate  transfer,  since
putting the quitclaim deed in the box would place it in the husband's
immediate possession. C is correct since it is the only fact listed that
could possibly result in a judgment for the husband.

Since the formal requirements for wills are usually more demanding
than those for deeds, a deed that is intended to take effect only on the
death  of  a  grantor  (i.e.,  a  testamentary  substitute)  is  invalid.  A  is
therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  a  gift  causa  mortis  is
revoked  by  operation  of  law  if  the  donor  recovers  from  the  illness
that  threatened  his  or  her  life  at  the  time  the  gift  was  made.  D  is
requires  possession
adverse  possession 
incorrect  because 

1228

inconsistent  with  the  rights  of  the  owner,  and  the  husband's
possession of the land was at the woman's request.

47.  A  Under  the  best  evidence  rule  (aka  the  original  document  rule),
secondary  evidence  of  a  writing  is  not  admissible  to  prove  the
contents of the writing unless the original or a qualified duplicate is
shown to be unavailable. If the writing involved is in the hands of a
person  located  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  the  court,  it  may  be
regarded as unavailable. This is not so, however, if the person who
has  it  is  the  party  offering  secondary  evidence.  Since  the  original
contract is in the hands of the plaintiff, it therefore cannot be regarded
as  unavailable.  Nevertheless,  the  copy  that  the  plaintiff  offers  in  A
will not be excluded under the best evidence rule, since the FRE treat
all photocopies as originals.

In B,  the  defendant  is  charged  with  forging  a  check.  This  obviously
places the contents of the check in issue. Since the check has not been
shown  to  be  unavailable,  the  best  evidence  rule  will  exclude  oral
testimony  as  to  its  contents.  Ordinarily,  an  expert  witness  may  base
his or her opinion on things that are not in evidence. In C, however,
the expert has based her opinion solely on her examination of the X-
ray. In effect, this means that all she is really doing is telling the court
what the X-ray says. By doing so, she placed the contents of the X-
ray  in  issue.  Under  the  best  evidence  rule,  her  testimony  is  thus
inadmissible unless the X-ray is produced or its absence explained. If
the writing in question is in the control of an adverse party who has
failed  to  produce  the  original  after  receiving  notice  to  do  so,  the
document may be regarded as unavailable. In D, however, there is no
indication  that  the  state  tax  collector  was  asked  to  produce  the
plaintiff's  original  tax  return  or  refused  to  do  so.  Until  the  plaintiff
establishes  this,  or  otherwise  establishes  that  the  tax  return  is
unavailable,  the  best  evidence  rule  will  prevent  the  admission  of
secondary evidence of its contents.

48. D Under 28 U.S.C. §1391, venue is proper in “(1) a judicial district in
which  any  defendant  resides,  if  all  defendants  are  residents  of  the
State in which the district is located; (2) a judicial district in which a
substantial  part  of  the  events  or  omissions  giving  rise  to  the  claim
occurred,  or  a  substantial  part  of  property  that  is  the  subject  of  the
action is situated; or (3) if there is no district in which an action may
be otherwise brought as provided in this section, any judicial district

1229

in which any defendant is subject to the court's personal jurisdiction
with  respect  to  such  action.”  Because  both  the  doctor  and  the  nurse
are  citizens  of  State  C,  either  of  the  districts  in  State  C  are  proper.
Additionally,  since  the  accident  occurred  in  the  Eastern  District  of
State B, that is also a proper venue.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

49. B Embezzlement is criminal conversion of personal property known to
be  another's  with  intent  to  defraud,  committed  by  one  in  lawful
possession  of  that  property.  (Note:  Some  jurisdictions  require  that
there be a fiduciary relationship between victim and defendant. Since
the defendant's possession of the wallet resulted from her employment
relationship with the attorney, she may be found to have possessed it
as  his  fiduciary.)  When  the  defendant  spent  some  of  the  attorney's
money on ice cream, she converted it. Since she planned to keep the
money (i.e.,  use  it  as  her  own)  she  had  the  intent  to  defraud.  At  the
time,  she  was  in  lawful  possession  of  the  wallet.  Her  use  of  the
attorney's  money  for  the  purchase  of  ice  cream  was,  therefore,  an
embezzlement.  Once  a  crime  has  been  committed,  it  cannot  be
uncommitted. Thus, her returning the money to the attorney would not
prevent her from being convicted.

C is therefore incorrect. Larceny is a trespassory taking and carrying
off  of  personal  property  known  to  be  another's  with  the  intent  to
permanently deprive. A taking is trespassory if it violates the rights of
the  owner.  When  the  defendant  found  the  attorney's  wallet  in  the
parking lot and carried it off, she did not commit a trespassory taking
since her purpose prevented the taking from violating the rights of the
attorney.  For  this  reason,  and  because  she  then  lacked  the  intent  to
permanently  deprive  the  attorney,  she  did  not  commit  larceny  by
taking  the  wallet  home.  When  she  formed  the  intent  to  permanently
deprive  the  attorney,  and  when  she  acted  on  that  intent  by  spending
some of the money, the wallet was already in her possession, so she
did  not  “take”  or  carry  it  off.  For  this  reason,  she  did  not  commit
larceny. A and D are therefore incorrect.

50. C Private nuisance involves liability-forming conduct by the defendant
that unreasonably interferes with the plaintiff's right to use and enjoy
his or her realty. A defendant's conduct may be liability-forming if it
involves  an  intentional  invasion  of  the  plaintiff's  rights.  A  defendant
“intends”  a  particular  result  if  he  or  she  acts  with  the  desire  or

1230

substantial  certainty  that  it  will  occur.  Here,  as  a  result  of  his
conversation  with  the  plaintiff,  the  defendant  knew  with  substantial
certainty  that  his  conduct  was  interfering  with  the  plaintiff's  use  and
enjoyment of his realty — and, therefore, by definition he intended the
interference.  Thus,  if  the  interference  was  an  unreasonable  one,  the
defendant  is  liable  for  nuisance.  Although  the  (un)reasonableness  of
the  invasion  depends  on  many  factors  not  given,  private  nuisance  is
the only theory listed that could possibly result in a judgment for the
plaintiff.

Trespass  to  land  requires  an  intentional  unauthorized  entry  onto  the
plaintiff's  realty  by  something  tangible.  Since  there  was  no  tangible
entry onto the plaintiff's land, A is incorrect. Intentional infliction of
emotional  distress  requires  outrageous  conduct  by  which  the
defendant  intentionally  inflicts  severe  mental  suffering  upon  the
plaintiff. B  is  incorrect  because  the  plaintiff  does  not  seek  damages
for  mental  suffering  but  for  reduction  in  the  value  of  his  realty.
Although  an  invasion  of  privacy  may  be  committed  by  intentionally
and offensively interfering with the plaintiff's solitude, D is incorrect
because  this  theory  requires  some  physical  intrusion  into  the
plaintiff's presence.

51. B The  requirement  of  standing  exists  to  assure  that  a  person  making  a
constitutional  challenge  will  have  incentive  to  fully  and  vigorously
litigate  the  issues.  For  this  reason,  standing  requires  that  a  person
challenging  the  constitutionality  of  a  statute  show  some  actual  or
immediately threatened concrete personal injury that will be avoided
if the court grants the relief requested. Since the tax will reduce their
profits,  the  stockholders  of  a  corporation  with  sales  in  the  state  in
excess  of  $1  million  will  suffer  an  actual  injury  under  the  statute.
Since a finding that it violates the Commerce Clause would result in a
declaration that the statute is invalid and will therefore prevent the tax
from being collected, the injury will be avoided if the court grants the
relief  requested.  These  stockholders  therefore  have  standing  to
challenge the statute.

A is incorrect because there is no fact indicating that the people of the
neighboring  state  face  any  injury  under  the  statute,  and  additionally
because a state government does not have standing as a representative
of its residents. Since the corporation in C does not have annual gross
sales in excess of $1 million within the state, the statute imposes no

1231

tax on it. Thus, the corporation's stockholders lack standing because
they face no actual or immediately threatened injury under the statute.
C  is  therefore  incorrect.  Some  cases  have  held  that  state  taxpayers
have  standing  to  challenge  certain  expenditures  of  state  funds.  D  is
incorrect,  however,  because  this  statute  provides  for  acquisition
rather than expenditure of state funds.

its 

language  specifies  otherwise.  Since 

52.  A  A  transfer  of  realty  to  co-owners  is  presumed  to  convey  equal
interests  unless 
the
landowner's  will  made  the  niece  and  the  husband  joint  tenants  with
full right of survivorship as to a one-half interest, each is presumed to
have  received  an  equal  interest  in  the  one-half  interest,  or  a  one-
quarter interest in the whole. Joint tenancy is a form of co-ownership
best  known  for  the  right  of  survivorship.  This  means  that  upon  the
death of a joint tenant, his or her interest passes to the surviving joint
tenant. Since a one-half interest was held by the niece and the husband
as  joint  tenants  with  full  right  of  survivorship,  the  death  of  either
spouse  would  cause  his  or  her  one-quarter  interest  in  the  realty  to
pass to the surviving spouse. Since neither spouse survived the other,
however, the interest of each passes to his or her heirs. A conveyance
to  co-owners  that  does  not  specify  the  form  of  co-ownership  is
presumed to create a tenancy in common. Since the landowner's will
did not specify the form of the daughter's co-ownership, it made her a
tenant in common with the niece and the husband. Co-owners do not
have a right to survive to the interest of a tenant in common. For this
reason, the daughter's one-half interest passes to her heirs.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  daughter's  tenancy  in  common  with  the
niece  and  the  husband  gave  her  no  right  to  their  interest.  C  is
incorrect because the landowner's will did not make the shares of the
co-owners  equal  but  specified  that  the  daughter  held  a  one-half
interest, and that the other one-half interest was held by the niece and
the  husband.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  landowner's  will  gave  the
daughter a one-half interest.

53. D The  covenant  of  quiet  enjoyment  is  a  promise  that  the  grantee  shall
peaceably  and  quietly  enjoy  possession  without  interference  by  the
grantor or anyone with a lawful claim. This covenant is breached only
when an actual eviction or other interference with possession occurs.
For this reason, it flows from the covenantor to the grantee and his or
her  successors.  Since  the  friend  interfered  with  the  baker's

1232

possession under a lawful claim of right, the warranty was breached.
Since  it  flowed  from  the  landowner  to  successors  of  the  artist,  the
landowner may be liable to the baker for damages resulting from the
breach.

The  covenant  of  seisin  is  a  promise  that  the  grantor  has  title  to  and
possession  of  the  realty.  The  covenant  against  encumbrances  is  a
promise  that  no  other  person  has  encumbrances  or  liens  against  the
realty. If the realty is not as covenanted, these covenants are breached
the  moment  a  deed  containing  them  is  delivered  to  a  grantee.  Since
the covenants are breached upon delivery of the deed, however, they
do  not  flow  to  successors  of  the  covenantor's  grantee.  Since  the
landowner did not have a right to possession (i.e., he had leased the
realty  to  a  friend),  and  since  the  friend  held  a  lien  on  the  realty
(resulting  from  the  lease),  these  covenants  were  breached  by  the
landowner when he conveyed the realty to the artist in March. Since
they do not flow to the artist's successors, however, the baker could
not  succeed  against  the  landowner  on  these  theories.  A  and  B  are
therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because a covenant of the right to
convey  does  not  include  a  promise  that  the  grantor  is  entitled  to
possession, and this covenant was not breached by the landowner at
any time.

54. D Negligence  is  the  breach  of  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  owed  to  the
plaintiff  by  the  defendant.  Ordinarily,  a  defendant  owes  a  plaintiff  a
duty  of  reasonable  care  if  the  defendant's  conduct  creates  a
foreseeable  risk  to  the  plaintiff.  Most  jurisdictions  limit  this  duty  if
the  plaintiff  is  a  trespasser  on  the  defendant's  land.  Since  the
plaintiff's  parents  had  paid  a  fee  for  her  to  stay  at  the  defendant's
camp, however, she was an invitee to whom a duty of reasonable care
was owed. Since the defendant set aside a particular area for use by
children  as  a  playing  field,  she  owed  the  children  who  used  it  (i.e.,
her  invitees)  the  duty  of  making  reasonable  inspections  and  taking
reasonable steps to protect the children against dangerous conditions.
Thus,  because  the  reasonable  person  would  have  discovered  and
removed the tree root, the defendant's failure to do so was negligent
(i.e., unreasonable).

Many  jurisdictions  have  held  that  a  landholder  is  not  obligated  to
protect  even  invitees  against  dangers  that  result  solely  from  natural
conditions of the land. Since the way softball is played and the nature
of children make it foreseeable that children using the field would run

1233

into the bushes, however, the defendant's designation of the field as a
playing field for children resulted in a risk greater than that created
by  nature  (i.e.,  the  tree  root's  existence).  Her  creation  of  this  risk
imposed  upon  her  a  duty  to  act  reasonably  to  protect  the  children
against it. A is therefore incorrect. A plaintiff assumes the risk when
he or she voluntarily encounters a danger of which he or she actually
(i.e., subjectively) knows. Since the pile of leaves covering the tree
root prevented the plaintiff from knowing about it, she did not assume
the  risk  by  encountering  it.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Some  writers
have said that an invitee is owed “the highest duty of care.” This is a
much-misunderstood  statement,  however.  All  it  really  means  is  that
the  duty  owed  to  invitees  is  generally  higher  than  that  owed  to
trespassers or licensees. Basically, it is a duty of reasonable care, not
an  absolute  duty  to  keep  invitees  safe.  It  simply  makes  landholders
liable if they fail to act reasonably. C is therefore incorrect.

55.  D  Ordinarily,  a  promise  is  not  enforceable  unless  it  is  supported  by
consideration.  Consideration 
is  a  bargained-for  exchange  of
something of value for the promise. Because parties should be free to
strike whatever bargains appeal to them, courts do not usually inquire
into the relative values of the promise and the thing given in return for
it.  For  this  reason,  the  payment  of  $1  could  be  consideration  for  a
promise to hold open an offer to sell realty for $80,000. This is true,
however,  only  if  the  payment  of  $1  was  bargained-for  and  given  in
exchange for that promise. Since the seller did not ask for or receive
anything  in  exchange  for  her  promise,  it  was  unsupported  by
consideration  and  therefore  unenforceable.  In  a  few  jurisdictions,  a
recital like the seller's might be held to create a promise to pay $1,
and  that  promise  might  be  held  to  be  consideration  for  the  seller's
agreement  to  keep  the  offer  open.  D  is  correct,  however,  because  it
contains  the  only  reason  listed  that  could  possibly  support  the
conclusion that accompanies it.

The  parol  evidence  rule  prevents  the  use  of  extrinsic  evidence  of
prior  negotiations  or  agreements  to  modify  the  terms  of  an
unambiguous written contract that the parties intended as a complete
record  of  their  agreement.  Since  the  written  statement  that  she  had
received $1 was not a term of agreement but merely a recital of fact,
the parol evidence rule does not prevent the use of extrinsic evidence
to contradict it. A is therefore incorrect. When a promisee justifiably
relies  to  his  or  her  detriment  on  a  promise,  his  or  her  detrimental

1234

reliance may make the promise enforceable without consideration. B
is  incorrect,  however,  because  there  are  no  facts  indicating  that  the
buyer  changed  his  position  as  a  result  of  the  seller's  promise  (i.e.,
relied on the promise), the reasonable person would have relied on it
(i.e.,  that  reliance  was  justified),  or  the  buyer  was  damaged  (i.e.,
suffered detriment) as a result of such reliance. C is incorrect for two
reasons:  First,  courts  do  not  ordinarily  consider  whether
consideration  was  equal  in  value  to  a  promise  that  it  purports  to
support,  and  second,  the  dollar  was  not  consideration  for  the  realty
itself, but for an option to buy it.

56. C A party can only require another party to undergo a physical or mental
examination by obtaining a court order. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 35(a). An
order to submit to a physical or mental examination may only be made
if the other party's physical condition is “in controversy” and there is
a showing of “good cause.”

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

57. A Under FRE 803(2), a statement is admissible as an excited utterance
if it was made about a startling event while the declarant was under
the  stress  of  excitement  caused  by  that  event.  Since  being  pushed
down and injured is a startling event, and since the plaintiff's bleeding
and crying indicate that she was under the stress of excitement that it
produced, her statement qualifies as an excited utterance.

The  fact  that  a  declarant  is  presently  unavailable  is  never  in  itself
sufficient  to  permit  the  admission  of  his  or  her  out-of-court
statements.  B  is  incorrect  for  this  reason,  and  because  the  excited
utterance exception does not require that the declarant be unavailable.
C is incorrect, because although the plaintiff's statement is hearsay, it
is  admissible  under  the  excited  utterance  exception  to  the  hearsay
rule.  The  court  found  that  the  plaintiff  was  incompetent  to  testify
because  she  could  not  appreciate  her  duty  to  testify  truthfully.  The
reason that hearsay is customarily excluded is the fact that the hearsay
declarant was under no duty to speak truthfully when making the out-
of-court  statement.  The  excited  utterance  exception  to  the  hearsay
rule,  however,  is  based  on  the  inherent  trustworthiness  of  certain
statements made even while the declarant was under no legal duty to
tell the truth. For this reason, the plaintiff's inability to appreciate her
duty to tell the truth does not prevent her excited utterance from being
inherently trustworthy. D is therefore incorrect.

1235

58. A Leading questions are those that would give the ordinary person the
impression that the questioner desires one answer rather than another
and are ordinarily improper if asked on direct examination. FRE 611
recognizes  an  exception  to  this  rule,  permitting  leading  questions  to
be  asked  in  direct  examination  of  a  witness  associated  with  an
adverse  party.  Since  the  witness  is  employed  by  the  plaintiff's
adversary, the defendant, the objection should be overruled.

Leading  questions  may  also  be  asked  of  hostile  witnesses.  B  is
incorrect,  however,  because  a  hostile  witness  is  one  who  has
manifested  hostility  or  prejudice  under  examination,  and  there  is  no
indication  that  the  witness  did  so.  While  leading  questions  are
permitted on cross-examination, C is incorrect because the question
was  asked  on  direct  examination.  (Note:  The  facts  indicate  that  the
witness  was  called  by  the  plaintiff's  attorney  to  testify  on  the
presentation of the plaintiff's direct case.) Since the question made it
clear  that  the  examiner  wanted  an  affirmative  answer,  it  was  a
leading question. Thus, D is incorrect.

59.  D  One  who  engages  in  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity  is  strictly
liable for harm that proximately results from the dangerous nature of
that activity. Most jurisdictions hold that transporting large quantities
of any explosive substance is such an activity.

If  a  statute  is  designed  to  protect  a  class  of  persons  to  which  the
plaintiff  belongs  against  risks  like  the  one  that  resulted  in  harm,  its
violation may raise an inference or a presumption of negligence and
may  even  be  termed  negligence  per  se.  Since  the  statute  prohibited
parking  without  regard  to  a  vehicle's  contents,  it  was  obviously  not
designed  to  protect  against  risks  resulting  from  the  explosion  of  a
large quantity of gasoline. A and B are therefore incorrect. Since the
“No Parking” sign was also not designed to protect against this risk,
its violation is not relevant to determining whether the defendant was
negligent. For this reason, C is also incorrect.

60.  B  The  state  statute  could  result  in  depriving  the  girl's  parents  of  the
liberty  to  decide  what  treatment  their  daughter  should  receive.  The
Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments require
that a law that regulates a liberty interest must be clear enough to be
understandable by the person of ordinary intelligence. Otherwise, the
law may be void for vagueness. The statutory use of the phrase “life-
threatening” could violate this requirement, since the meaning of that

1236

phrase may depend on the opinion of the person using it. The statutory
reference  to  “hospital  officials”  may  also  be  vague  since  it  is
impossible to tell which officials the statute designates. Although the
court might find that the statute is not vague, the argument set forth in
B  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  the  conclusion
that it is unconstitutional.

The  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits  invidious  discrimination  by
the states. A is incorrect because there is no indication that the statute
discriminates against any particular group. The Free Exercise Clause
prohibits  the  government  from  interfering  with  the  exercise  of
religious  beliefs.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  girl's  parents  have  not
claimed  that  their  refusal  to  consent  to  the  blood  transfusion  was
related  to  any  religious  belief  that  they  held.  (Note:  Beware  of
reading into a question facts that the examiners did not write into it.)
Determining  whether  a  statute  does  or  does  not  interfere  with  a
fundamental  right  is  relevant  in  selecting  the  standard  that  it  must
meet  to  be  valid.  D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  fact  that  a
statute interferes with a fundamental right is never in itself sufficient
to justify the conclusion that it is unconstitutional.

61.  B  Statements  by  a  now-unavailable  declarant  concerning  —  among
other things — the declarant's marriage, or relationship by blood or
marriage,  are  admissible  under  the  FRE  hearsay  exception  for
statements of personal history, and under the common law exception
for statements of pedigree. Since the mother was deceased at the time
of  trial,  she  was  unavailable.  Since  the  notations  contained  in  the
Bible were statements by the mother about her marriage to the man's
brother, about her relationship by marriage to the man, and about her
relationship  by  blood  to  the  niece,  it  qualifies  for  admission  under
both FRE 803(13) and the common law.

The  FRE  permit  the  admission,  as  an  “ancient  document,”  of  a
properly authenticated writing that is at least 20 years old. Common
law  usually  requires  30  years.  A  is  incorrect  under  both  systems,
however,  because  there  is  no  fact  indicating  the  age  of  the  mother's
notation in the Bible. In some jurisdictions, a law known as the “dead
man's  statute”  prevents  the  admission  of  certain  evidence  regarding
certain transactions with a person who is now deceased. Although the
dead  man's  statute  may  prevent  the  admission  of  evidence,  it  never
justifies  the  admission  of  evidence.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  Under

1237

FRE 803(9), “records of vital statistics,” including birth, death, and
marriage,  may  be  admissible  if  such  records  were  kept  by  a  public
office pursuant to the requirements of law. D is incorrect because the
notation  that  the  niece  offered  into  evidence  was  not  reported  to  or
kept by a public office pursuant to the requirements of law.

62. D Criminal conspiracy consists of an agreement between two or more
persons to commit a crime. When the defendant and the friend agreed
to  rob  a  bank,  the  crime  of  conspiracy  was  complete  —  whether  or
not they ever actually went through with the plan.

In  most  jurisdictions,  once  a  defendant  has  become  guilty  of  a
conspiracy (by agreeing to commit a crime), he or she cannot avoid
criminal  responsibility  for  the  crime  of  conspiracy  by  withdrawing
from or renouncing their plan. A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

63. C A defendant is liable for harm that proximately results from his or her
breach of a duty of reasonable care. Since a hotel keeper obviously
owes a duty of reasonable care to hotel guests, the defendant's failure
to  use  adequate  care  in  hiring  the  electrician  would  be  a  breach  of
that  duty,  making  the  defendant  liable  for  injuries  resulting  from  the
electrician's error.

Although  one  who  employs  an  independent  contractor  is  not
vicariously liable for torts committed by the contractor, the employer
may be liable for his or her own negligence in failing to use adequate
care in selecting the contractor. A is therefore incorrect. If reasonable
inspection  by  the  defendant  would  have  failed  to  disclose  the
electrician's  error,  then  the  defendant's  failure  to  discover  the
electrician's error would not be negligence. This alone would not be
enough to result in a judgment for the defendant, however, because the
defendant  may  have  committed  some  other  act  of  negligence  (e.g.,
failing  to  use  adequate  care  in  selecting  the  electrician)  for  which
liability can be imposed. B is therefore incorrect. Strict liability may
be imposed upon one who engages in (or employs another to engage
in)  an  ultra-hazardous  activity.  Strict  liability  does  not  apply,
however,  to  an  ordinary  activity  that  has  become  ultra-hazardous
because of a negligent error made by the person engaging in it. D is
therefore incorrect.

64. B A quitclaim deed conveys the interest held by the grantor at the time of
its execution. The wife could not own the entire Smith and Baker tract

1238

if  the  landowner  had  already  conveyed  part  of  it  to  the  sister.
Although  certain  methods  of  describing  realty  are  popular  or
traditional,  any  description  is  adequate  if  it  identifies  the  land
conveyed  with  reasonable  clarity.  Thus,  if  the  description  contained
in  the  landowner's  deed  to  the  sister  was  reasonably  sufficient  to
identify the property conveyed, it effectively conveyed that property.

A  conveyance  by  deed  usually  implies  a  warranty  of  title  which,  if
breached, may give the grantee a right of action against the grantor. A
quitclaim deed does not. But although one who receives a quitclaim
deed has no right of action for breach of warranty against the grantor,
the  quitclaim  deed  may  effectively  convey  whatever  interest  the
grantor  did  possess.  Thus,  if  the  landowner's  deed  to  the  sister  did
not  effectively  convey  part  of  the  Smith  and  Baker  tract,  his
conveyance  to  his  wife  by  quitclaim  could  have  been  sufficient  to
make her the owner of the entire Smith and Baker tract. A is therefore
incorrect. C and D are incorrect because a description is sufficient if
it identifies the realty conveyed with reasonable clarity.

65. B The United States Supreme Court has held that a public person suing
for defamation must prove “actual malice,” and that a private person
suing  a  media  defendant  for  defamation  must  prove  either  “actual
malice” or negligence. A defendant had “actual malice” if, at the time
he or she made a defamatory statement, he or she knew the statement
to be false or entertained serious doubts about its truth. A defendant
was negligent if at the time he or she made a defamatory statement, he
or  she  did  not  know  that  the  statement  was  false,  but  would  have
known  had  he  or  she  been  acting  reasonably.  If  officials  of  the
newspaper  believed  the  statement  was  true,  they  lacked  “actual
malice.”  If  their  belief  was  reasonable,  they  were  not  acting
negligently.  Thus,  if  they  had  a  reasonable  belief  in  the  truth  of  the
statement, the newspaper would not be liable for defamation.

Although some states recognize a privilege to publish false statements
that are contained in public records, there is no privilege to misstate
the contents of a public record. A is therefore incorrect. A defendant
who defamed a public figure may be liable if he or she had “actual
malice”  as  defined  above.  Thus,  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  was  a
public  figure  would  not  be  sufficient  in  itself  to  protect  the
newspaper  against  liability  for  defaming  him.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.  A  plaintiff  asserting  a  claim  for  written  defamation  (i.e.,

1239

libel)  is  not  required  to  prove  damage  to  make  out  a  case  if  the
written  statement  was  defamatory  on  its  face.  Thus,  the  plaintiff's
failure to prove damage is not sufficient to prevent recovery. For this
reason, D is incorrect.

66.  C  The  Fourth  Amendment  guarantee  against  unreasonable  search  and
seizure  is  ordinarily  violated  when  a  search  is  conducted  without  a
warrant.  To  enforce  this  guarantee,  the  United  States  Supreme  Court
has ruled that the fruits of an unlawful search should be excluded from
evidence. A search occurs when there has been an invasion of an area
as  to  which  a  defendant  had  a  reasonable  expectation  of  privacy.
Since  the  defendant  was  the  only  person  who  had  a  key  to  the
footlocker, it was reasonable for him to expect that its contents would
remain  private.  For  this  reason,  the  officers'  first  look  into  the
footlocker  was  a  search.  Since  the  warrant  was  issued  because  of
what the officers found, its issuance was one of the fruits of that first
unlawful  search.  For  this  reason,  the  defendant's  motion  to  suppress
the  cocaine  must  be  granted.  (Note:  There  are  some  special
exceptions to the rule that a warrantless search is unlawful. The facts
in this case do not satisfy the requirements of any of these exceptions,
but  the  nature  of  the  question  only  makes  it  necessary  to  eliminate
those listed in the options.)

Consent by a third party to search the property of a defendant makes a
warrantless search lawful, but only if the person who consented had
rights in the property that were equal to those of the defendant. Since
the defendant was the only person who had a key to the footlocker, the
woman  did  not  have  rights  to  its  contents  that  were  equal  to  the
defendant's.  Thus,  her  consent  did  not  eliminate  the  need  for  a
warrant to search it. A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Even  the  consent  of  a
person who does not have an equal right to the premises might justify
a warrantless search if the police officers reasonably believed that he
or  she  had  such  a  right  (i.e.,  the  person  who  consented  had  the
“apparent authority” to do so). B is incorrect, however, because even
if  the  woman  had  apparent  authority  to  consent  to  a  search  of  the
room,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  had  the  only  key  to  the  footlocker
should have made it obvious to the officers that the woman's authority
did  not  extend  to  its  contents.  Probable  cause  justifies  an  arrest
without  a  warrant  but  does  not  justify  a  search  without  a  warrant.
Thus,  probable  cause  could  not  justify  the  first  search.  Although  a
search warrant may be issued upon a showing of probable cause, it is

1240

invalid  if  that  probable  cause  was  itself  the  fruit  of  an  unlawful
search.  Thus,  probable  cause  does  not  justify  the  issuance  of  the
warrant or the second search that was conducted pursuant to it. D is
therefore incorrect.

67.  A  Although  a  breach  of  contract  may  entitle  the  wronged  party  to
suspend his or her own performance, it does not always give him or
her the right to terminate the contract entirely. Fairness and the courts
ordinarily  require  that  the  breaching  party  be  allowed  a  reasonable
period of time in which to cure the breach. If it is cured within that
period, the breaching party may enforce the contract against the non-
breaching  party,  although  he  or  she  may  be  liable  for  damages
resulting  from  his  or  her  breach.  In  determining  whether  the  breach
was cured in a reasonable time, the courts consider the nature of the
contract  itself  and  the  circumstances  surrounding  its  formation.
Because  the  circumstances  contemplated  by  the  parties  made  it
essential that the conveyance occur on or before June 15, the court is
likely  to  determine  that  a  conveyance  on  June  16  did  not  cure  the
breach.

Sometimes  the  phrase  “time  is  of  the  essence”  is  inserted  in  a
contract  to  make  it  clear  that  the  circumstances  contemplated  by  the
parties did make it essential that performance occur by a certain date.
Since  those  circumstances  may  be  found  to  exist  even  without  the
insertion  of  specific  language,  however,  its  insertion  is  not  the  only
thing  that  would  result  in  a  judgment  for  the  buyer.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. Even if the seller's breach resulted in damage to the buyer,
a court could find that the breach was cured within a reasonable time,
and that therefore the buyer's only remedy is damages. C is therefore
incorrect. D  is  incorrect  because  contract  liability  does  not  depend
on fault and may be imposed in spite of reasonable efforts to comply
with the contract.

68.  D  One  who  engages  in  an  ultra-hazardous  or  abnormally  dangerous
activity  is  strictly  liable  for  damage  that  proximately  results
therefrom. Since most jurisdictions agree that storing poisonous gases
is an ultra-hazardous or abnormally dangerous activity, proof that the
gas is extremely deadly would be sufficient to result in the imposition
of strict liability on the defendant.

One who places a defective product — whether defective in design
or in manufacture — in the stream of commerce may be held strictly

1241

liable  for  damage  resulting  from  the  product  defect.  A  is  incorrect,
however, because the defendant did not place the tank in the stream of
commerce. B and C are incorrect because the defendant did not place
the gas that injured the plaintiff in the stream of commerce.

69. A Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2)(b), the party using an expert witness
must automatically supply a written report containing “(i) a complete
statement  of  all  opinions  the  witness  will  express  and  the  basis  and
reasons  for  them;  (ii)  the  facts  or  data  considered  by  the  witness  in
forming them; [and] (iii) any exhibits that will be used to summarize
or support them.” Consequently, the airline's attorney does not need to
do anything to know the details of the expert's research before trial.

Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.

70. A Lay witnesses are generally permitted to testify only to facts. When it
would be helpful to a clear understanding of the witness's testimony,
however,  the  opinion  of  a  lay  witness  may  be  admissible  if  it  is
rationally based on the perceptions of the witness. The decision as to
whether this is so and as to whether the lay opinion is admissible is
made in the court's discretion. Therefore, if the judge decides that the
witness's  opinion  is  rationally  based  on  her  perceptions,  it  is
admissible.  Conversely,  unless  the  judge  so  decides,  the  witness's
opinion should be excluded.

So long as they do not go beyond matters in common knowledge, lay
opinions  about  the  physical  and  mental  condition  of  another  are
usually  admissible.  For  this  reason,  an  opinion  that  another  person
was intoxicated is admissible (so long as it is rationally based on the
witness's  perceptions)  even  if  the  witness  is  not  an  expert  on
intoxication.  B  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  The  admissibility  of
opinion evidence is a question of law for the judge. This means that
the  judge  cannot  admit  the  witness's  opinion  testimony  unless  he  or
she finds it to be rationally based on the witness's perceptions, and he
or  she  cannot  delegate  that  responsibility  to  the  jury.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

71. C The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits
a  state  from  denying  persons  within  its  jurisdiction  the  equal
protection of the law. A system of classification contained in social or
economic  legislation  is  usually  presumed  to  comply  with  this
requirement  so  long  as  it  has  some  rational  basis.  When  the

1242

classification is a “suspect” one, the presumption of constitutionality
is inverted, and the statute is unconstitutional unless it is necessary to
serve  a  compelling  state  interest.  Since  alienage  is  a  “suspect
classification,” a statute that discriminates against aliens is ordinarily
required  to  meet  the  compelling  state  interest  test.  Under  the
“political function” exception, however, a statute that prevents aliens
from holding a particular state job may be constitutionally valid if the
job is one that should be performed only by people familiar with and
sympathetic to American traditions. The Supreme Court has held that
the only jobs falling into this category are those that invest the public
employee with the power to make policy or with broad discretion in
executing public policy.

A is incorrect because not all “traditional” government activities fall
into  this  category.  Since  alienage  is  a  suspect  classification,  B  is
incorrect  because  a  rational  basis  is  not  sufficient  to  justify  a
classification  based  on  alienage.  Statutes 
interfere  with
fundamental interests — like those based on “suspect classifications”
—  are  also  subject  to  the  compelling  state  interest  standard.  D  is
incorrect,  however,  because  a  classification  based  on  alienage  is
“suspect,”  making  the  compelling  state  interest  standard  applicable
even if the right with which the statute interferes is not a fundamental
one.

that 

72.  D  Unless  the  parties  stipulate  otherwise,  a  jury  verdict  must  be

unanimous. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 48(b).

A and B are incorrect because the jury must have between 6 and 12
members. C is  incorrect  because  the  Seventh  Amendment  generally
does  not  give  a  right  to  a  jury  trial  for  parties  seeking  an  equitable
claim such as an injunction.

73. C Federal courts have subject matter jurisdiction over claims that arise
under federal law. See 28 U.S.C. §1331. Since the woman is making a
claim based on the federal National Labor Relations Act, the federal
district court in State A has jurisdiction over the matter.

Because the woman is bringing a federal claim, any issues regarding
the  citizenship  of  the  parties  are  irrelevant.  Therefore,  A, B,  and  D
are incorrect.

74. B Negligence  is  a  breach  of  the  duty  of  reasonable  care.  This  duty  is
breached  by  a  defendant's  failure  to  act  like  the  reasonable  person.

1243

Thus, unless the reasonable person would have repaired the fence, the
defendant's failure to do so was not negligent.

In  most  jurisdictions,  a  person  who  keeps  a  wild  animal  is  strictly
liable  for  damage  that  it  causes.  The  jurisdictions  that  do  not  apply
this  rule  generally  hold  that  keeping  a  wild  animal  is  prima  facie
negligent.  Neither  rule  is  applied,  however,  unless  the  injury
sustained by the plaintiff resulted from the wild and dangerous nature
of  the  animal  involved.  Since  even  a  domestic  animal  might  knock
over a fence that has become badly deteriorated, the plaintiff's injury
did not result from the wild and dangerous nature of the defendant's
cougar.  For  this  reason,  A  is  incorrect.  In  deciding  whether  a
defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  it  is  compared  to  that  of  the
reasonable  person.  What  matters  is  not  what  the  defendant  actually
knew  about  the  risks,  but  what  the  reasonable  person  in  the
defendant's  position  would  have  known  about  those  risks.  C  is
incorrect because the issue was whether a reasonable person would
repair  the  fence.  A  plaintiff  assumes  a  risk  when,  knowing  that  it
exists,  he  or  she  voluntarily  encounters  it.  D  is  incorrect  because
there  is  no  fact  indicating  that  the  plaintiff  knew  that  the  fence  was
deteriorated enough to create a risk that the cougar would injure her.

75.  B  Ordinarily,  a  promise  is  unenforceable  unless  it  is  supported  by
consideration.  Consideration 
is  a  bargained-for  exchange  of
something  of  value  given  in  return  for  and  to  induce  a  promise.  It
usually  consists  of  some  benefit  conferred  upon  the  promisor  or  of
some  detriment  incurred  by  the  promisee.  Consistent  with  this
definition  is  the  rule  that  a  promisee's  undertaking  to  do  something
that he or she is already legally obligated to do (i.e., performance of a
preexisting  duty)  is  not  consideration  for  a  new  promise  by  the
promisor because it does not confer on the promisor any benefit that
he or she was not already entitled to receive and does not impose on
the  promisee  any  detriment  that  he  or  she  had  not  already  incurred.
Since all that the worker gave the farmer in return for his promise to
pay  for  the  tractor  rental  was  her  promise  that  she  would  finish
plowing by April 1, and since she was already legally obligated to do
so,  the  farmer  may  successfully  argue  that  his  promise  was
unsupported  by  consideration.  [Note:  Although  UCC  §2-209(1)
permits the modification of a sales contract between merchants to be
enforced  without  consideration,  it  is  inapplicable  here  because  this
was not a contract for sale.]

1244

Although the Statute of Frauds makes an oral contract for the purchase
of goods with a price of $500 or more unenforceable over objection,
A  is  incorrect  because  the  agreement  between  the  farmer  and  the
worker was not for the sale of goods. Duress is some compulsion or
restraint  that  deprives  a  contracting  party  of  the  ability  to  exercise
free will and usually involves some physical force or threat. A few
cases  have  recognized  the  possibility  of  economic  duress,  but  this
defense  is  rarely  applied,  and  when  it  is,  it  involves  much  more
desperate  economic  threats  than  any  indicated  by  the  facts  in  this
case. C is incorrect for this reason and because a party to a contract
is  expected  to  show  reasonable  firmness  in  asserting  his  or  her
contract  rights.  Since  the  farmer  failed  to  object  to  the  additional
charge, it is unlikely that a court would conclude that he did so under
duress. When a promise would ordinarily be unenforceable because
it  is  unsupported  by  consideration  or  because  it  fails  to  satisfy  the
Statute of Frauds, justified detrimental reliance by the promisee may
result  in  enforcement  on  a  theory  of  promissory  estoppel.  D  is
incorrect,  however,  because  the  farmer's  reliance  on  the  worker's
promise is not relevant to the worker's attempt to enforce the farmer's
promise.

76. C The landowner's conveyance made his son a life tenant. A life tenant
may convey that interest. When the son quitclaimed his interest in the
land,  the  wife  gained  a  life  estate  per  autre  vie,  or  a  life  estate
measured by the life of another. Here, the wife would get what the son
had, specifically a life estate measured by the son's life. The daughter
continued  to  hold  a  remainder  in  fee  simple,  since  the  conveyance
gave  “the  remainder  to  my  daughter”  without  any  limitation.
Ultimately,  the  daughter  would  get  the  land  from  the  wife  when  the
son died. The fact that the landowner did not give the son permission
to quitclaim his interest does not change the analysis.

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

77. B False pretenses consists of obtaining title to another's property by a
knowing  false  statement  of  present  or  past  fact  with  the  intent  to
defraud.  Here,  the  dealer  obtained  title  to  the  man's  money  by
knowingly  lying  about  the  fact  the  car  was  not  a  new  car.
Consequently,  he  could  be  charged  with  this  crime,  and  D  is
incorrect.

A is incorrect because larceny by trick happens when a victim merely

1245

transfers  custody  of  his  or  her  property,  not  title.  C  is  incorrect
because embezzlement requires the person to convert property he or
she is already in lawful possession of. Here, the dealer was clearly
not already in lawful possession of the man's money before the man
gave it to him based on his belief he was buying a new car.

78.  A  Federal  courts  of  appeal  review  a  district  court's  determination
regarding  unsettled  state  law  de  novo.  Consequently,  a  court  of
appeals should not defer to a district court's decision.

B is incorrect because a federal court sitting in diversity must apply
the  substantive  law  of  the  state  in  which  it  is  sitting.  See  Erie
Railroad  v.  Tompkins,  304  U.S.  64  (1938).  C  is  incorrect  because
federal courts follow federal procedural law. D is incorrect because
statutes of limitations are substantive law when determining whether
to  apply  federal  or  state  law.  See  Guaranty  Trust  Co.  v.  York,  326
U.S.  99  (1945).  Consequently,  a  federal  court  should  follow  the
statute of limitations rules of the state in which it is sitting.

79. C Exigent circumstances justify a warrantless entry into a home if police
officers  are  assisting  an  injured  occupant  or  preventing  imminent
injury.  Exigent  circumstances  also  include  preventing  the  imminent
destruction of evidence and searching in “hot pursuit” for a suspect.
Here,  the  officer  heard  the  men  fighting,  and  entered  the  home  to
prevent  imminent  injury.  He  then  discovered  the  drug  evidence  in
plain  view.  A  is  incorrect  because  exigent  circumstances  were
present.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  plain  view  doctrine  applies  to
situations  where  police  see  evidence  of  a  crime  from  a  location
where they have a right to be. Here, the plain view doctrine does not
address  the  officer's  initial  entry  into  the  house.  D  is  incorrect
because the issue here is exigent circumstances, not probable cause.
Additionally,  the  validity  of  a  search  does  not  depend  on  whether
there was probable cause for the suspect's ultimate arrest.

80. A UCC §1-205 defines usage of trade as a practice or method of dealing
that  is  regularly  observed  in  a  particular  industry.  UCC  §2-202
permits  evidence  of  usage  of  trade  to  explain  the  terms  of  a  written
contract, even when the contract was intended to be a final expression
of the agreement of the parties.

B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Ordinarily,  parties  to  a  contract  are
understood  to  accept  the  economic  risks  resulting  from  subsequent

1246

events  that  were  within  their  contemplation  at  the  time  the  contract
was formed. This means that if the parties did contemplate a decline
in new home starts, a strong argument could be made that the builder
should  be  bound  by  the  20,000-board-feet  minimum  set  forth  in  the
contract. The fact that they did not contemplate such a decline in new
homes, if relevant at all, is thus more likely to support the builder's
position than it is to support the supplier's. In any event, although the
contemplation of the parties might help determine the meaning of the
terms that they used, it is not the only factor to be considered. In fact,
the  UCC  specifically  permits  evidence  of  trade  usage  to  be
considered as well. C is therefore incorrect. Ordinarily, in construing
contracts, courts consider the manifest intentions of the parties and do
so by examining the language of the written agreement between them.
A problem may arise, however, since the words used may have meant
different things to the different parties. Since trade usage may indicate
the  meaning  that  certain  terms  generally  have  for  people  in  the
industry  involved,  the  UCC  provision  regarding  trade  usage  is
designed to help determine what the parties meant by the terms they
used.  If,  for  example,  it  was  generally  understood  in  the  trade  that
minimum  requirements  were  inapplicable  in  times  of  falling  prices,
the parties might have specified a minimum number, meaning it to be
applicable only if prices did not fall, even though this intention would
not be apparent to persons not in the trade. The argument set forth in
D, however, is based on what the language means to people who are
unaware of its special trade usage. For this reason, D is incorrect.

81. B The United States Supreme Court has held that the First Amendment of
the  United  States  Constitution  requires  a  public  official  or  public
figure  suing  for  defamation  to  prove  that  the  defendant  had  actual
malice  in  making  the  defamatory  statement.  The  Court  defined  a
public official as a public employee who has or reasonably appears
to  have  substantial  control  over  the  conduct  of  public  affairs.  The
plaintiffs  are  clearly  public  employees.  Whether  they  reasonably
appear to have substantial control over the conduct of public affairs
may be a question of fact, but B is the only argument listed that could
possibly result in a judgment for the newspaper.

The United States Supreme Court has said that there is no such thing
as  a  false  idea.  Since  defamation  liability  cannot  be  imposed  for
publication of the truth, this statement by the Supreme Court prevents
defamation  liability  from  being  imposed  for  the  publication  of  an

1247

opinion.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  —  even  though  it  was
contained  in  an  editorial  —  the  statement  that  the  majority  of
firefighters  were  dangerously  out  of  shape  and  had  recently  failed
their physicals is obviously an assertion of fact. The Supreme Court
has  defined  a  public  figure  as  either  one  who  has  achieved  such
“pervasive  fame  and  notoriety”  that  he  or  she  is  known  to  the  great
mass of humanity, or one who has voluntarily “mounted the rostrum”
in  an  attempt  to  influence  public  opinion  on  a  matter  of  public
controversy.  C  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  fact  indicating  that
either  definition  applies  to  the  plaintiffs.  In  addition,  C  is  incorrect
because  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  a  defendant  may  not
successfully  argue  that  the  plaintiff  has  become  a  public  figure  as  a
result of the defamatory statements that the defendant published about
the  plaintiff.  D  is  incorrect  since  the  Supreme  Court's  definition  of
“public official” makes it clear that not all public employees fit into
this category.

82. B Under UCC §2-609, whenever it reasonably appears that a party to a
sales contract will be unable to perform as required, the other party
may  demand  an  adequate  assurance  of  performance.  If  the  party  on
whom  such  demand  is  made  fails  to  respond  within  a  reasonable
period  of  time,  the  party  making  that  demand  may  treat  the  other
party's  prospective  inability  to  perform  as  a  repudiation.  Since  the
destruction of the plaintiff's only factory raised reasonable questions
about whether the plaintiff would be able to perform as required, the
police department was entitled to demand assurances as it did in its
letter  of  July  10.  When  the  plaintiff  failed  to  respond  within  a
reasonable  time,  the  police  department  was  relieved  of  any  further
obligation to perform.

When unforeseen circumstances eliminate the underlying reasons for
contracting,  the  doctrine  of  frustration  of  purpose  may  excuse
performance by the parties. (If, for example, all the criminals in the
city stopped using guns so that there was no longer any reason for the
police  department  to  need  bulletproof  vests,  the  doctrine  of
frustration  of  purpose  might  relieve  it  of  its  obligation  to  continue
purchasing  vests  from  the  plaintiff.)  A  is  incorrect  because  the
underlying reasons for the agreement between the police department
and  the  plaintiff  (i.e.,  the  police  department's  need  for  bulletproof
vests)  continued  to  exist  even  though  the  plaintiff's  factory  was
destroyed. An agreement calling for a series of performances by the

1248

parties may be regarded as a single contract or as a series of separate
ones. Calling it “divisible” simply means that the court will treat it as
a  series  of  separate  contracts.  It  is  difficult  to  tell  from  the  facts
whether the contract between the defendant and the police department
is  or  is  not  “divisible.”  In  either  event,  however,  whether  it  is  a
breach of a single agreement calling for a series of performances, or
of one of the separate agreements that result from calling the contract
divisible, the defendant's failure to deliver bulletproof vests might be
a breach. Therefore, determining that the contract was divisible is not
relevant  in  determining  whether  failure  to  perform  constitutes  a
breach,  so  C  is  incorrect.  Even  before  the  time  of  performance,  a
party  may  treat  the  other  party's  repudiation  as  a  breach.  Thus,  a
repudiation by the police department might provide the plaintiff with
an  argument  in  support  of  its  position,  but  it  would  not  provide  the
police  department  with  support  for  its  position.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

83.  C  Negligence  is  unreasonable  conduct  when  one  has  a  duty  to  act
reasonably.  Importantly,  a  person  cannot  be  negligent  if  he  or  she
acted  reasonably.  Consequently,  only  unreasonable  conduct  on  the
limousine driver's part can result in a judgment against him. Here, if a
court finds it was unreasonable for the driver to swerve to avoid the
dog,  he  would  be  liable  for  negligence.  A  is  incorrect  because  the
doctrine of res ipsa loquitur is  used  in  cases  where  the  defendant's
conduct  is  unknown.  In  that  case,  it  allows  a  plaintiff  to  create  an
inference  that  the  defendant  acted  unreasonably  by  relying  on
circumstantial  evidence.  In  that  case,  the  evidence  has  to  show  that
the accident was one that would not normally have occurred without
negligence,  under  circumstances  that  eliminated  all  probabilities
other than the negligence of the defendant. Here, such circumstantial
evidence  is  unnecessary  because  the  limousine  driver's  conduct  in
swerving to avoid the dog was known. Under negligence per se, the
defendant is negligent if, without excuse, he or she violates a statute
that  is  designed  to  protect  against  the  type  of  accident  that  the
defendant's conduct causes, and the accident victim is within the class
of  persons  the  statute  is  designed  to  protect.  The  important  point  is
that  the  violation  must  cause  the  accident.  Since  the  accident  would
have happened even if the limousine driver had insurance, there is no
causal link between the violation and the statute. Thus, B is incorrect.
D  is  incorrect  because  even  if  the  limousine  driver  owed  some

1249

special  duty  to  the  teenagers,  he  still  would  have  had  to  act
unreasonably before he could be found liable.

84. C Under the statute, the defendant can be guilty of second degree murder
only if the victim dies during the course of the commission of one of
the  enumerated  felonies.  Nothing  in  the  facts  suggests  that  the
defendant or the friend was committing a rape, kidnapping, burglary,
or arson. Robbery is a larceny that is committed by force or a threat
of  force  against  a  human  being.  Larceny  is  a  trespassory  taking  and
carrying off of personal property known to be another's with the intent
to  permanently  deprive  the  other  of  it.  Since  the  jury  believed  the
defendant's testimony, the coat that she was attempting to obtain from
the victim was her own. Her taking it could not, therefore, constitute a
larceny, and her use of force to take it was not a robbery.

A and B are incorrect because if a death occurs during the course of
one  of  the  felonies  specified,  the  felony  murder  rule  is  frequently
applied  even  though  the  death  was  unforeseeable.  Since  the  statute
provides  that  an  unintentional  killing  is  second  degree  murder  if
perpetrated by the defendant or an accomplice during the course of a
listed crime, D is obviously incorrect.

85. C Since the notary received his interest from the barber, the validity of
the notary's title depends on the validity of the barber's title. For this
reason,  if  the  barber's  title  is  superior  to  that  of  the  landowner's
cousin, then so is the notary's. The validity of the barber's title (and
therefore of the notary's) depends on the recording statute. The statute
given  is  a  typical  “race-notice”  statute.  According  to  its  provisions,
the  interest  of  a  subsequent  grantee  for  value  and  without  notice  is
superior to that of a prior grantee unless the prior grantee's interest is
recorded  before  the  subsequent  grantee's  interest  is  recorded.  Thus,
since  the  landowner's  cousin's  interest  was  recorded  before  the
barber's, it was superior to the barber's (and therefore to the notary's).

A  is  incorrect  because  although  the  statute  makes  the  payment  of
value  a  condition  for  the  superiority  of  a  subsequent  grantee's
interest, it does not impose such a requirement on the prior grantee.
Since the “race” aspect of the statute makes priority depend on who
recorded first, the fact that the barber recorded before selling to the
notary  would  not  defeat  the  landowner's  cousin's  interest  since  the
barber  recorded  after  the  cousin  did.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.
Recording  is  “outside  the  chain  of  title”  if  it  could  not  have  been

1250

discovered  by  a  reasonable  title  search.  (For  example,  since  the
cousin recorded before the barber, a reasonable title search might not
have disclosed a record of the deed from the landowner to the barber.
This is because after finding a record of the landowner's grant to the
cousin,  the  searcher  would  have  expected  that  the  next  grant  of  an
interest in the property was by the cousin and would have no reason
to search for a subsequent grant by the landlord.) Most jurisdictions
hold that a recording outside the chain of title is no recording at all
since  it  does  not  give  the  reasonable  searcher  notice  of  the
transaction. D is incorrect, however, because if the barber recorded
prior  to  the  cousin,  the  recording  of  the  landowner's  grant  to  the
barber would have been within the chain of title.

86. D If the defendant is the initial aggressor, he or she may not claim self-
defense. Importantly, the defendant can be an aggressor, and lose the
right of self-defense, even if the defendant did not actually strike the
first  blow.  If  a  defendant  does  an  unlawful  act  that  intentionally
provokes the physical conflict, the defendant becomes the aggressor.
Here, the defendant provoked the robber by telling the robber that the
defendant would shoot him through the windshield if the robber tried
to  leave.  Consequently,  the  defendant  became  the  aggressor  and  lost
his claim of self-defense.

For  a  self-defense  claim,  the  harm  being  defended  against  must  be
reasonably imminent. While the danger that someone will be attacked
tomorrow  is  likely  insufficient  to  support  a  claim  of  self-defense,
courts will not make the defendant wait until the absolute last second
before he or she can defend himself or herself. Here, even though the
robber  was  still  getting  out  of  his  car,  a  court  would  likely  find  the
danger  was  reasonably  imminent.  Thus,  A  is  incorrect.  In  a  self-
defense  claim,  the  defendant  may  not  use  more  force  than  seems
reasonably necessary in the circumstances. Here, a large axe is likely
a use of deadly force. Consequently, the defendant's use of the pistol
was not more force than was necessary and B is incorrect. While the
robber  had  already  attempted  to  withdraw,  the  real  issue  is  the
defendant's provocation, so C is incorrect.

87.  A  In  Minnesota  v.  Olson,  495  U.S.  91  (1990),  the  United  States
Supreme Court held that an overnight guest has a legitimate interest in
privacy in the residence where he or she is staying. Consequently, the
police had to obtain a search warrant before they could lawfully enter

1251

the apartment because the man was staying there for a week and was
thus an overnight guest. Therefore, D is incorrect.

B is  incorrect  because  the  plain  view  exception  only  applies  when
the  police  see  evidence  from  a  place  they  are  lawfully  able  to  be.
Here, the police only saw the marijuana once they unlawfully entered
the apartment. C is  incorrect  because  even  if  the  neighbors  smelled
the marijuana, this was not an exigent circumstance or other exception
that would relieve the police from having to obtain a search warrant.

88. D One who holds a present possessory interest in real estate is entitled
to make all normal uses of the land and to keep the profits from those
uses so long as he or she does not unreasonably decrease its value to
the holders of future interests. This means, among other things, that the
holder  of  a  present  possessory  interest  in  realty  is  permitted  to  rent
the realty and to keep the rent. For this reason, the accountant has no
right to the rents. On the other hand, since the permanent removal of
minerals from the land will inevitably reduce the value of the realty,
limitations  on  the  removal  of  minerals  are  imposed  on  holders  of
certain present possessory interests. If, however, the grantor had been
actively  removing  minerals  from  the  realty,  it  is  presumed  that  in
granting a present possessory interest, the grantor intended to grant the
right to continue removing minerals as well. Since the landowner had
been  mining  the  gold  on  the  land,  it  is  presumed  that  he  intended  to
grant the friend the right to continue doing so, even though the friend's
interest in the realty was less than a fee. Thus, the accountant is not
entitled to proceeds from the mining operation, either.

For  the  combination  of  reasons  given  above,  A,  B,  and  C  are
incorrect.

89. B. A question of fact is an issue in the case that is decided by looking at
the facts in evidence. The validity of the rock singer's signature would
be a question of fact. A trial court's findings regarding a question of
fact  will  not  be  disturbed  unless  they  are  “clearly  erroneous.”  See
Fed. R. Civ. P. 52(a)(6).

A  is  incorrect  because  a  question  of  law  is  an  issue  that  must  be
decided by applying legal principles (for example, whether a police
officer had probable cause to arrest a suspect). C and D are incorrect
the
because  abuse  of  discretion  is  the  standard  applied  to 
discretionary decisions of a trial court, such as leaves to amend.

1252

90.  C  FRE  801(d)(1)(B)  specifies  that  a  prior  consistent  statement  of  a
declarant is not hearsay if the declarant has testified and is available
for cross-examination, and if the statement is offered to rebut a claim
of  recent  fabrication.  Since  the  victim  testified  that  the  defendant
raped her, and since the defendant claimed that the victim's complaint
was  fabricated  on  April  3,  evidence  that  the  victim  made  that  same
complaint  to  the  neighbor  on  March  7  tends  to  rebut  the  defendant's
claim. The neighbor's testimony is therefore admissible.

Under FRE 803(2), a statement is admissible as an excited utterance
if it was made about a startling event while the declarant was under
the stress of excitement caused by that event. Ordinarily, this requires
the  statement  to  have  been  made  either  during  the  event  or
immediately  thereafter.  Since  a  week  passed  between  the  alleged
rape and the victim's statement to the neighbor, it probably does not
qualify  as  an  excited  utterance.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Hearsay  is
defined  as  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving the truth of the matter asserted in that statement. If the victim's
out-of-court statement to the neighbor is not offered to prove the truth
of what she asserted (i.e., that the defendant raped her) but is offered
to prove that she did not fabricate her complaint after learning that the
defendant  was  married,  it  is  not  hearsay.  FRE  801(d)(1)(B)
specifically  provides  that  such  a  statement  “is  not  hearsay.”  This
means that in addition to being admissible for the purpose of rebutting
the defendant's claim of recent fabrication, the victim's statement may
be  admissible  as  substantive  evidence  as  well.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. FRE 803(1) recognizes a hearsay exception for a statement
of  the  declarant's  sense  impressions.  This  exception  applies,
however, only when the declarant's statement describing an event is
made  during  or  immediately  after  the  event.  Since  the  victim's
statement to the neighbor was made a week after the incident that it
purported to describe, D is incorrect.

91.  D  Since  the  formal  requirements  for  wills  are  more  demanding  than
those for deeds, a deed that is intended to take effect only on the death
of the grantor (i.e.,  a  testamentary  substitute)  is  invalid.  Thus,  if  the
woman  intended  for  the  quitclaim  deed  to  have  no  effect  until  after
her  death,  it  is  invalid.  Although  the  facts  make  it  impossible  to
determine  with  certainty  what  the  woman's  intention  was,  D  is  the
only  argument  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  a  judgment  for  the
nurse.

1253

A  is  incorrect  because  recording  statutes  protect  only  those  who
purchase  for  value.  Since  the  nurse  received  by  will  and  without
consideration,  the  husband's  failure  to  record  would  not  give  the
nurse  a  priority.  Although  a  quitclaim  deed  does  not  imply  any
warranties  or  covenants,  it  does  serve  to  transfer  whatever  interest
the  grantor  held  at  the  time  of  its  execution.  B  and  C  are  therefore
incorrect.

92. B Assault  is  the  intentional  causing  of  an  apprehension  of  harmful  or
offensive  contact.  Importantly,  the  doctrine  of  transferred  intent
applies  to  assault.  Under  this  doctrine,  if  the  defendant  had  the
necessary intent with respect to one person, he or she will be held to
have  committed  an  intentional  tort  against  any  other  person  who
happens to be injured. Here, the boy clearly intended to frighten the
babysitter. Thus, even though the boy intended to scare his babysitter,
the  fact  that  his  sister  was  nearby  and  was  put  in  apprehension  of
harmful  or  offensive  contact  (i.e.,  she  ducked)  was  enough  for
liability. A  is  incorrect  because  the  boy  could  also  have  been  held
liable for battery since he did in fact hit the babysitter. Importantly, a
defendant has the necessary intent for battery if he intended to cause
an  imminent  apprehension  on  the  plaintiff's  part  of  a  harmful  or
offensive  contact.  Basically,  the  intent  to  commit  an  assault  is
sufficient for battery. C is incorrect because if the defendant intends
to  frighten  the  plaintiff,  he  has  the  necessary  intent  for  assault.  D  is
incorrect because in the case of battery or assault, it is not necessary
that the defendant bear malice or hostility toward the plaintiff.

93. B It has been said that the offeror is monarch of the offer. This means, of
course,  that  the  person  who  institutes  the  contractual  process  by
making an offer is in complete control of that offer's terms and, upon
acceptance,  is  not  bound  to  any  terms  other  than  those.  Since  the
buyer's offer was to pay $100 for information “leading to purchase of
an  antique  car,”  he  is  not  required  to  pay  unless  the  information
furnished  actually  leads  to  the  purchase  of  an  antique  car.  Since  the
man's letter did not, it does not qualify the man to receive the reward.

A is incorrect because an offer to the general public that is made by
advertisement  ordinarily  is  not  revoked  until  a  withdrawal  is  given
approximately  equal  publicity.  C  and  D  are  incorrect  because  the
buyer only offered to pay for information leading to purchase, and the
man's did not.

1254

94  A  When  a  safety  statute  is  violated,  courts  will  find  an  unexcused
violation  of  that  statute  negligence  per  se.  There  are  three  main
requirements  for  application  of  negligence  per  se:  1)  the  defendant
violated  a  statute,  2)  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the
same  type  of  accident  that  occurred,  and  3)  the  accident  victim  is  a
member  of  the  class  of  persons  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.
Here,  all  three  elements  were  satisfied  because  the  manufacturer
failed  to  provide  a  warning,  the  warning  would  have  protected
against the man's skin discoloration, and the man was a member of the
class  (a  user  of  the  cream)  that  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.
However,  even  when  negligence  per  se  applies,  the  plaintiff  must
still  show  a  causal  link  between  the  violation  and  the  injury.  Here,
since the man admitted that no one in his household read the warnings,
there was no causal link, since the harm would have occurred even if
the warning was inside the packaging. B is incorrect because the main
issue  here  is  the  lack  of  the  warning  in  the  package,  not  the  man's
continued  use  of  the  cream.  C  is  incorrect,  because  there  was  no
causal link between the harm and the failure to provide the warning.
D is  incorrect  because  it  fails  to  take  into  account  whether  the  man
would have read or even followed the warning.

95. B A proceeding is moot when there are no contested material issues for
the  court  to  decide.  Since  the  girl  has  died,  the  state  court  can  no
longer  appoint  the  hospital  administrator  her  guardian.  Since  the
purpose  of  the  federal  proceeding  was  to  stop  the  state  proceeding,
and since the state proceeding must terminate in any event, there is no
longer  any  contested  issue  before  the  federal  court.  The  issues  have
thus  become  moot.  An  exception  to  the  mootness  rule  exists  when  a
controversy  is  capable  of  repetition  and  evading  judicial  review.
Under this exception, the federal court might decide to hear the case
even though the girl's death has made it moot. Mootness, however, is
the only argument listed that could possibly result in dismissal of the
proceeding brought by the girl's parents.

A  non-justiciable  political  controversy  is  a  case  in  which  a  federal
court is asked to interfere with the operation of a co-equal branch of
the  federal  government.  A  is  incorrect  because  the  challenge  raised
by the girl's parents is to a state law, not to an action of the federal
government.  The  Eleventh  Amendment  prohibits  federal  courts  from
hearing  certain  claims  against  state  governments.  C  is  incorrect,
however,  because  the  Eleventh  Amendment  does  not  prevent  the

1255

federal  courts  from  hearing  claims  that  state  action  violates  the
United  States  Constitution.  Where  a  pending  state  court  proceeding
might  result  in  an  interpretation  of  or  a  conclusion  about  a  state
statute that would resolve a federal challenge to it, federal courts are
usually  unwilling  to  enjoin  enforcement  of  that  statute.  The  reason
given is sometimes said to be “equitable restraint.” It is not related,
however,  to  the  question  of  ripeness.  So  long  as  there  is  someone
who can actually benefit from a resolution of the issues, and so long
as the issues are fully developed and clearly defined, those issues are
ripe. Thus, although the issues in this case may no longer be “ripe,”
this is not because the highest state court has not decided, but because
there  is  no  longer  any  person  who  will  actually  benefit  from  a
resolution of the issues. D is therefore incorrect.

96. A Economic  regulation  by  the  state  is  constitutionally  valid  if  it  has  a
rational basis. The “pay-to-throw” program is an economic regulation
and therefore is subject to the rational basis standard. Obviously, any
legal requirement of payment may have the effect of discriminating in
favor  of  the  wealthy  against  the  poor.  However,  the  United  States
Supreme  Court  has  rejected  arguments  that  classifications  based  on
wealth  are  “suspect.”  Consequently,  B  is  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because  even 
interference  with  a  fundamental  right  may  be
constitutional  if  it  is  necessary  to  serve  a  compelling  state  interest.
laws  discriminate  against  somebody  (e.g.,  penal  codes
All 
discriminate  against  criminals).  Thus,  unless  a  law  has  no  rational
basis (in the case of certain kinds of regulation) or is not necessary to
serve  a  compelling  interest  of  the  state  (as  in  other  kinds  of
regulation),  the  fact  that  it  discriminates  against  a  discrete  class  of
persons is not enough to make it unconstitutional. Thus, D is incorrect.

97.  B  Ordinarily,  a  promise  is  not  enforceable  unless  there  was
consideration  for  it  (i.e.,  something  given  in  exchange  for  and  to
induce  the  promise).  Since  the  man  had  already  rescued  the  dog
without expectation of payment, the rescue was not given in exchange
for  or  to  induce  the  dog  owner's  promise  and  is  therefore  not
consideration for it. Some cases have held, however, that a promise
to  do  that  which  the  promisor  is  morally  obligated  to  do  should  be
enforceable  even  without  consideration.  Although 
is  an
infrequently  applied  exception  to  the  requirement  of  consideration,
the argument set forth in B is the only one listed that could possibly
provide the man with effective support for his claim.

this 

1256

Since  the  man  had  already  rescued  the  dog  without  expecting
compensation, the rescue was not given in exchange for or to induce
the  dog  owner's  promise.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  In  determining
whether  to  rescind  a  contract  because  of  mutual  mistake,  fraud,
duress,  or  undue  influence,  the  court  may  attempt  to  decide  whether
its  failure  to  rescind  would  unjustly  enrich  one  of  the  parties.
Ordinarily, however, the fact that a party will be unjustly enriched by
something  is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to  result  in  the  imposition  of
contractual  duty  on  the  party.  C  is  incorrect  for  this  reason  and
because the fact that the man rescued the dog without expectation of
payment  probably  prevents  the  dog  owner's  enrichment  from  being
unjust.  Sometimes  a  promise  that  is  unsupported  by  consideration
will  be  enforced  under  the  doctrine  of  promissory  estoppel  if  the
promisee  justifiably  relied  upon  it  to  his  or  her  detriment.  D  is
incorrect, however, because while the man did rely on the promise to
his  detriment,  there  is  no  indication  the  dog  owner  should  have
foreseen such reliance.

98. D Since there is no evidence that the defendant in the question scenario
intended  to  cause  death  or  great  bodily  harm,  the  issue  in  the
defendant's  case  is  whether  a  person  who  lacks  such  intent  can  be
convicted of voluntary manslaughter. Although voluntary manslaughter
requires  such  intent,  murder  does  not.  In  D,  the  defendant  was
convicted of murder after bringing about the death of another person
without the intent to kill or inflict injury. The affirmance of her murder
conviction  established  that  the  trial  court  was  correct  in  refusing  to
charge  on  voluntary  manslaughter  where  the  defendant  lacked  the
intent to kill. Since this has a direct bearing on whether the defendant
(who  also  lacked  the  intent  to  kill)  can  be  convicted  of  voluntary
manslaughter, D is applicable to the defendant's case.

The  effect  of  A  is  to  hold  that  one  who  acts  unreasonably  may  be
guilty  of  involuntary  manslaughter.  Since  it  does  not  say  anything
about  what  it  would  take  to  justify  a  conviction  for  voluntary
manslaughter,  it  is  inapplicable  to  the  defendant's  case,  and  A  is
therefore incorrect. Since the defendant in B had the intent to kill and
the defendant in the question scenario did not, the decision in B that
the  court  should  have  charged  on  voluntary  manslaughter  is
inapplicable  to  the  defendant's  case.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Like
voluntary manslaughter, attempted murder requires the specific intent
to  cause  death  or  great  bodily  harm.  For  this  reason,  C  appears  at

1257

first glance to raise an issue similar to that raised in the defendant's
case.  Since  the  crimes  charged  in  the  two  cases  were  different,
however, C is not really applicable as a precedent in the defendant's
case.  (That  is,  a  holding  that  the  defendant  cannot  be  guilty  of
attempted murder without specific intent does not logically relate to
the  question  of  whether  a  defendant  can  be  guilty  of  voluntary
manslaughter without specific intent.) C is therefore incorrect.

99. C People have joint authority over a place when there is mutual use of
the  property  by  persons  generally  having  joint  access  or  control  for
most purposes. Here, the girlfriend stated that she shared the bedroom
with  the  defendant  “most  of  the  time.”  Consequently,  she  had  joint
authority over the bedroom and could give valid consent to search it.
A is incorrect because “most of the time” does not lessen the fact that
she appears to have joint access or control for most purposes. In fact,
“most  of  the  time”  could  mean  99.9  percent  of  the  time  because  the
girlfriend  did  not  limit  her  statement  in  any  way.  B  is  incorrect
because  she  does  not  need  to  be  the  owner  of  the  property  to  give
valid consent, as long as she actually has or is reasonably believed by
the  police  to  have  joint  authority  over  the  premises.  D  is  incorrect
because the girlfriend's statement made it clear she had joint authority
over  the  premises.  There  is  no  indication  in  the  question  that  the
police made any kind of mistake regarding her ability to consent to a
search,  so  the  police  would  not  have  to  argue  that  they  were
reasonable in their belief regarding the girlfriend's ability to consent.

100. A Contracts are sometimes subject to a condition precedent. A condition
precedent  is  any  event,  other  than  a  lapse  of  time,  that  must  occur
before  performance  under  the  contract  is  due.  Importantly,  strict
compliance with an express condition is ordinarily necessary. Here,
since  the  buyer  could  not  find  adequate  financing,  he  is  discharged
from  any  of  his  obligations  under  the  sales  contract.  B  is  incorrect
because even if the seller helped subsidize the interest payments, the
express  condition  precedent  still  failed  to  occur.  C  is  incorrect
because  the  failure  of  the  express  condition  precedent  meant  no
contract  was  formed.  Finally,  D  is  incorrect  because  there  was  no
contract until the condition was fulfilled, so the seller could not suffer
any damages under it.