EVIDENCE QUESTIONS

1. The defendant operated a chain of fast food restaurants that specialized
in fried fish. The defendant entered into a valid written contract with
the plaintiff for the purchase of “6,000 pounds of frozen fish filets of
frying quality,” to be delivered by the plaintiff over a period of six
months. One week after the plaintiff made its first delivery pursuant to
the contract, however, the defendant notified the plaintiff that the
product delivered was unacceptable because the filets delivered
weighed only eight ounces each, and that they were cut from Grade B
fish. The plaintiff subsequently brought an action against the defendant
for breach of contract. At the trial of that action, the plaintiff offered
the testimony of a chef. The chef testified that he was the head chef at a
leading hotel, that he was an expert on the preparation of fried fish in
fast food restaurants, and that he had been employed as a chef in fine
restaurants for more than 30 years. He testified further that in that time,

597

he had purchased large quantities of fish on numerous occasions and
was familiar with the terminology used in the wholesale fish industry.
The chef stated that when the phrase “fish filets of frying quality” is
used in the wholesale fish business, it means boneless pieces from six
to nine ounces in weight and cut from Grade A or B fish. For the
purposes of the trial, the parties specifically agreed to be bound by the
terminology of the wholesale fish industry. Upon proper objection by
the defendant's attorney, the chef's testimony as to the meaning of the
phrase should be

(A) admitted as evidence of trade terminology.

(B) admitted, because the chef is an expert on the preparation of fried

fish in fast food restaurants.

(C) admitted, because the parties specifically agreed to be bound by the

terminology of the wholesale fish industry.

(D) excluded, since it is an opinion.

2. While visiting the United States from a Central American republic, the
plaintiff purchased a sweater at a department store and paid for it at the
appropriate cash register. In ringing up the sale, however, the store
employee neglected to remove a security tag that was still affixed to
the sweater to prevent theft. As a result, the tag caused an electronic
security alarm to ring as the plaintiff attempted to exit the store with the
purchased merchandise. Security guards immediately accosted her and
placed her under citizen's arrest. Eventually, the police were called,
and a more thorough investigation was instituted. As a result, it was
determined that the plaintiff had paid for the merchandise. Authorities
of the department store apologized to the plaintiff and permitted her to
leave.

Subsequently, a magazine erroneously reported that the plaintiff had
been arrested, charged with shoplifting at the department store, and
taken into police custody. Because the plaintiff was a candidate for
political office in the Central American republic, newspapers in that
country reprinted the magazine article. The plaintiff lost the election,
and she instituted an action against the magazine for damages resulting
from defamation. At the trial of the plaintiff's action, the magazine
called as a witness a man who resided in the republic, who testified
that he was familiar with the plaintiff's reputation in that country. He
stated that, in the republic, the plaintiff was generally known as a

598

thieving and corrupt politician. If the plaintiff's attorney moves to
strike that testimony, the motion should be

(A) granted, since reputation evidence is not admissible for the purpose

of establishing a party's conduct at any particular time.

(B) granted, since evidence of a party's character is admissible only in

criminal cases.

(C) denied, since evidence of the plaintiff's reputation is relevant to her

claim for damage resulting from defamation.

(D) denied, since the evidence is relevant to the truth or falsity of the

statements made in the magazine article.

3. At the trial of an action by the plaintiff against the defendant for breach
of contract, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant failed to deliver
3,000 filters as agreed. The plaintiff asserted further that, as a result, it
was required to purchase filters on the open market at a price
substantially higher than that agreed upon in its contract with the
defendant. As part of its case, the plaintiff offered the testimony of the
witness, who stated that she was the plaintiff's purchasing agent. She
said that when the defendant breached its contract with the plaintiff,
she had been assigned to purchase filters elsewhere. In answer to a
question, she said, “I recall buying 3,000 filters at a price of $23 per
hundred.” The plaintiff's attorney then showed her a paper that the
witness identified as a photocopy that she personally had made of the
plaintiff's file on that purchase, explaining that the original was kept in
the plaintiff's home office, which was located in another state. Upon
objection by the defendant's attorney, which of the following should the
court admit into evidence?

(A) The witness's testimony as to her recollection of the purchase

price.

(B) The copy that the witness authenticated.

(C) The witness's testimony as to her recollection of the purchase price,

and the copy that the witness authenticated.

(D) Neither the witness's testimony as to her recollection, nor the

authenticated copy.

4. A city newspaper printed an article claiming that a local university
president was a “horrible racist” who “looked down on minority
groups and would prefer not to have any at the university.” The

599

university president filed suit for defamation. During the university
president's presentation of the case, he sought to put the mayor on the
stand. The mayor was prepared to testify that when he asked the
university president for a personal donation to help city relief services
during a recent flood, the university president wrote a large check from
his own account. Since several substantially minority neighborhoods
were flooded along with other neighborhoods in the city, the check
helped many minority citizens. The newspaper's lawyer objected.

How should the court rule regarding the mayor's testimony?

(A) Admissible, because the university president's character is at issue.

(B) Admissible, because it shows the university president supports

minorities.

(C) Inadmissible, because a specific incident is not enough to establish

one's character.

(D) Inadmissible, because it is not probative of any material issue in

the case.

5. At the trial of a personal injury action, the plaintiff claimed that he had
sustained a shattered elbow when he was knocked from his bicycle by
the defendant's car. A doctor testified for the plaintiff, stating that she
examined him for the first time on the morning of the trial and that her
examination was made specifically in preparation for her testimony.

The doctor stated that during the course of the examination, the
plaintiff said, “My arm hurts so much, I don't see how I'll ever be able
to go back to work.” Which of the following would be the defendant's
strongest argument in support of a motion to strike the testimony?

(A) The plaintiff's statement was made in contemplation of litigation.

(B) The doctor was not examining the plaintiff for the purpose of

treatment.

(C) The plaintiff's statement was self-serving.

(D) Evidence of the plaintiff's statement is more prejudicial than

probative.

6. A witness saw the fatal shooting of the victim. The witness told a grand
jury investigating the shooting that, “The defendant was the shooter! I
was standing 10 feet away when I saw the defendant murder the

600

victim!” The defendant was arrested and charged with murder. At trial,
the witness could not be found. Eventually, the police discovered that
the witness had moved out of the country and left no forwarding
address. Since the witness is unavailable, the prosecution attempts to
offer his grand-jury statement into evidence. The trial court is
convinced that the grand-jury testimony has circumstantial guarantees
of trustworthiness. Upon objection by the defendant, the witness's
statement should be

(A) admitted, because the witness is not available to testify at trial.

(B) admitted, because the use of the evidence is consistent with the

general interests of justice.

(C) admitted, because the trial court is convinced the grand-jury
testimony has circumstantial guarantees of trustworthiness.

(D) excluded.

7. The plaintiff sued an amusement park after the plaintiff was injured on
a rollercoaster. At trial, the plaintiff called a witness who testified that
she was at the amusement park and, after the plaintiff was injured, the
man employed by the amusement park to run the rollercoaster came
over and said, “I'm sorry! I didn't secure your seatbelt right!” The
amusement park objected.

The court should

(A) overrule the objection, because the statement is attributable to the

amusement park.

(B) overrule the objection, because the statement is a declaration

against interest.

(C) sustain the objection, because the statement is inadmissible against

the amusement park.

(D) sustain the objection, because the statement is inadmissible

hearsay.

8. A woman was the mother of a four-year-old girl. One day, because the

woman had an appointment, she left the girl in the care of the
defendant. While in the defendant's custody, the girl began to cry. In an
attempt to quiet her, the defendant beat her severely, striking her
repeatedly across the back and raising a series of welts and bruises.
Soon afterwards, the woman returned and took the girl home. As the

601

woman was undressing the girl to prepare her for bed, she noticed the
marks on the girl's body and asked, “What happened?” The girl
responded by saying that the defendant had spanked her. The defendant
was subsequently arrested and charged with child abuse. At the
defendant's trial on that charge, the woman was called as a witness by
the prosecution on the presentation of its direct case. When the woman
attempted to testify to the above conversation between herself and the
girl, the defendant's attorney objected on the ground that the girl's
statement was hearsay.

The prosecutor's most effective argument in opposition to the
objection would be that the statement is admissible as

(A) a present sense impression.

(B) an excited utterance.

(C) a statement of present physical condition.

(D) an identification.

9. At the trial of the defendant for receiving stolen property, the

prosecution called a man to the witness stand. The man testified that in
a conversation that he had with the defendant in jail shortly after the
defendant's arrest, the defendant admitted that he knew that the car that
he had been driving was stolen. Which of the following facts or
inferences would best support the defendant's motion to exclude the
man's testimony?

(A) At the time of their conversation, the man told the defendant that he

was an attorney.

(B) At the time of their conversation, the defendant reasonably believed
that the man was employed as an investigator for the defendant's
attorney.

(C) The man had offered to recommend an attorney to the defendant and

had asked the defendant to tell him the facts of the case.

(D) The man had been charged with a crime, and on the day of the

defendant's trial, had negotiated a favorable plea bargain in return
for his testimony.

10. The plaintiff was injured when she fell down a flight of steps at a
bartending school. She subsequently sued the school for damages,
asserting that the accident resulted from the school's negligence in

602

allowing parts of the stairway to become loose. At the trial, a doctor
testified that he had examined and treated the plaintiff following the
accident. On direct examination, he stated that, in his opinion, the
plaintiff had sustained a spinal injury. He also stated that in making the
diagnosis, he did not take a spinagram.

On cross-examination, the school's attorney asked the doctor whether
he had ever read the work of a noted specialist in spinal injuries. The
doctor replied that he had heard of the specialist, but that he had never
read any of her work. The school's attorney then opened a book by the
specialist and said, “In this book, the specialist says that it is
impossible to diagnose spinal injuries without taking a spinagram.
How do you justify your diagnosis in view of that statement?” If the
plaintiff's attorney objected to the question, the court should

(A) sustain the objection, since the specialist has not testified in the

proceeding.

(B) sustain the objection, since no proper foundation has been laid.

(C) overrule the objection, since an expert may be cross-examined

regarding the works of other experts in the field.

(D) overrule the objection, since the doctor admitted having heard of

the specialist.

11. A witness, testifying on behalf of the prosecution, stated that he saw the

defendant shoot the victim three times in the back. During the
defendant's case, the defendant's attorney offered two properly
authenticated judgments of conviction. One showed that the witness
had been convicted two years ago of attempted murder, which was a
felony. The other showed that the witness had been convicted one year
ago of knowingly making false statements in an application for a
business license, which was a misdemeanor. Over objection by the
prosecution, the court should admit the judgment(s) of conviction of

(A) attempted murder only.

(B) knowingly making false statements in an application for a business

license only.

(C) both crimes.

(D) neither crime.

12. An inspector employed by the State Aeronautics Bureau was assigned

603

to investigate the crash of an airline flight. During the course of his
investigation, the inspector questioned an airline mechanic who had
worked on the plane just before it took off on its last flight. The
mechanic said that while going over the plane, he had discovered some
dangerous cracks in its engine parts, but that when he called them to the
attention of his supervisor, he was told to forget about them. He stated
also that after the crash, he was fired as part of a cover-up. The
inspector included a verbatim transcript of the mechanic's statement in
the report that he filed as required by Bureau procedure. Soon
thereafter, the inspector and the mechanic both died. In an action
brought against the airline under the state's wrongful death statute by
the surviving spouse of a passenger who died in the crash, the plaintiff
offered the inspector's written report into evidence. Upon objection by
the airline, the portion of the report containing the transcript of the
mechanic's statement should be

(A) admitted, because the inspector is dead.

(B) admitted, because the mechanic is dead.

(C) admitted, as a vicarious admission by the airline.

(D) excluded, since it is hearsay.

13. The defendant was charged with stealing three valuable figurines from

the home of the victim while painting the interior of that home.

At the defendant's trial, the victim testified that he first noticed that the
figurines were missing about an hour after the defendant left his home.
He stated that he looked the defendant's number up in the telephone
book and properly dialed the number listed therein. Over objection by
the defendant's attorney, the victim stated that a man answered the
phone and said he was the defendant. The victim stated that he then
said, “Where are the figurines?” and that the person at the other end of
the line said, “I'm sorry. I took them.” The objection by the defendant's
attorney should be

(A) sustained, because there was no independent evidence establishing
that the defendant was the person to whom the victim was speaking.

(B) sustained, since the victim did not actually see the person to whom

he was speaking.

(C) sustained, since the statement is hearsay.

604

(D) overruled.

14. A statute provides that the owner of a motor vehicle is vicariously
liable for the negligence of any person driving with said owner's
permission. In an action for personal injuries brought by the plaintiff
against the defendant, the plaintiff alleges that she was injured as a
result of the negligent driving of a woman who was operating the
defendant's car with the defendant's permission at the time of the
accident. The defendant denies ownership of the vehicle in question.
Over the objection of the defendant's attorney, the plaintiff offers into
evidence an insurance policy issued by an insurance company. The
policy is authenticated by the testimony of an officer of the company,
who states that the policy was purchased by and issued to the
defendant, and that on the day of the accident, the policy was in force
on the vehicle in question. The policy and authenticating testimony
should be

(A) admitted, since it tends to establish that the defendant was the

owner of the vehicle at the time of the accident.

(B) admitted, since it is relevant to the defendant's ability to pay a

judgment rendered against her.

(C) excluded, because policy prohibits the introduction of evidence that
a party did or did not have liability insurance on the day of an
accident.

(D) excluded, because it has no probative value relative to the issues in

the case.

15. Two defendants were charged with committing an armed robbery that
occurred on a Saturday. Although they were being tried together, the
defendants were represented by different attorneys. Both asserted that
they were together at a rock concert in another state on the day of the
robbery. At the trial, a witness testified on behalf of the defendants. On
direct examination, the first defendant's attorney asked the witness
about a conversation he had with the first defendant on the Thursday
before the robbery. The witness stated that during that conversation, the
first defendant told him that she and the second defendant were
planning to leave for the rock concert together on Friday morning and
would not be back in town until Monday. Upon timely objection by the
prosecution, the testimony of the witness should be

(A) admitted, only insofar as it refers to the first defendant.

605

(B) admitted, only insofar as it refers to the second defendant.

(C) admitted, insofar as it refers to both defendants.

(D) excluded as hearsay.

16. The defendant was charged with murdering the victim, a prominent

union leader, by throwing him off the roof of an office building. At the
defendant's trial, the prosecution offered the testimony of a police
officer who arrived at the scene moments after the victim's death.

The officer testified that as he was getting out of his cruiser, he heard
an unidentified person in the crowd shout, “A tall man pushed him off
the roof!” The defendant's objection to the statement should be

(A) overruled, since it does not establish with certainty that the

defendant was the person referred to in the declarant's statement.

(B) overruled, since the person making the statement did so while in a
state of excitement resulting from what he had just observed.

(C) sustained, since the identity of the person making the statement is

unknown.

(D) sustained, because there are likely eyewitnesses available to testify

in court.

17. The publisher of a large daily newspaper printed an article by a

journalist in its employ. The article accused the plaintiff of misusing
church funds. The plaintiff commenced a defamation action against the
publisher.

At the trial of the defamation action, the publisher's attorney called a
bartender who worked in a bar near the publisher's office. The
bartender stated that on the day after the journalist's article appeared
in the newspaper, the journalist told him, “When I wrote that piece on
the plaintiff, I believed every word of it.” On objection by the
plaintiff's attorney, the bartender's testimony should be

(A) admitted as evidence that the article was published without malice.

(B) admitted as a declaration of the journalist's state of mind.

(C) admitted as a self-serving declaration.

(D) excluded as hearsay.

18. The defendant was an orderly employed by the hospital in which the

606

patient died. The administrator of the patient's estate sued the
defendant, seeking the return of a watch that he claimed that the
defendant had taken from the patient's hospital room after the patient
died. At the trial, the defendant testified that about one week prior to
the patient's death, the patient called him into his room and handed him
the watch, saying, “You've been kind to me. This is for you.” If the
administrator objects to the testimony, the court should

(A) overrule the objection, since the statement is an admission.

(B) overrule the objection under the applicable Dead Man's Act.

(C) overrule the objection, since the patient's statement had a direct
legal effect on the defendant's right to possess the watch.

(D) sustain the objection, since the statement is hearsay, not within any

exception to the hearsay rule.

19. Following his arrest on New Year's Eve, the defendant was charged
with reckless driving and driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor. The arresting officer testified at the defendant's
trial on those charges.

The officer stated that she was a highway patrol officer, that she was
familiar with the stretch of state highway on which the defendant was
arrested, and that she had extensive experience observing and
estimating the speed of moving vehicles. She said that she was in her
patrol car observing traffic from behind some bushes when she saw
the defendant drive by at what appeared to be an excessive rate of
speed. When asked by the prosecuting attorney whether she formed an
opinion of the defendant's speed at that time, she replied that she had.
When the prosecutor asked her to state that opinion, the defendant's
attorney objected. The objection should be

(A) sustained, because the officer did not claim she was an expert on

the speed of moving vehicles.

(B) sustained, since no proper foundation was laid.

(C) overruled, since a police officer is regarded as an expert on the

speed of moving vehicles.

(D) overruled, since a layperson may express an opinion regarding the

speed of moving vehicles.

20. Charged with forcible rape, the defendant relied on a defense of alibi.

607

At the trial, the victim testified that the defendant was the man who
accosted her on the street, dragged her into the basement of an
apartment building, and forced her to submit to sexual intercourse.
During the case, the defendant's attorney offered the testimony of a
witness who stated that she was familiar with the victim's reputation in
the community and that the victim was thought of as a prostitute. The
defendant's attorney also offered into evidence a certified court record
indicating that the victim had been convicted of prostitution, a
misdemeanor, two months prior to the alleged rape.

Upon proper objection by the prosecution, which of the following
should the court admit?

(A) The witness's testimony only.

(B) The court record only.

(C) The witness's testimony and the court record.

(D) Neither the witness's testimony nor the court record.

21. On January 15, after receiving a brochure from the company

advertising a sale of blank DVDs at an especially reduced price, a
store ordered 2,000 blank DVDs from the company for resale. When
the DVDs were delivered, however, the store's manager refused to
accept delivery, asserting that she had expected the DVDs to be
packaged in plastic cases, but that those delivered were packaged in
paper boxes. The company sued the store for breach of contract.

At trial, the store manager testified that it is easier to sell DVDs when
they are packaged in plastic cases. She attempted to testify further that
she had ordered blank DVDs from the company on three previous
occasions, and that the DVDs received in response to each order had
been packaged in plastic cases. If the company's attorney objects to
this testimony, which of the following would be the company's most
effective argument in support of the objection?

(A) Evidence of past conduct is not admissible for the purpose of
establishing a party's conduct on any particular occasion.

(B) The order was in writing and made no mention of the way in which

the products were to be packaged.

(C) The DVDs were being sold at an especially reduced price to permit

resale at a lower price.

608

(D) DVDs are commonly packaged in paper boxes like those in which

the blank DVDs had been delivered to the store.

22. A statute provides that “No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the
public roads of this state who is not covered by a policy of automobile
liability insurance with a limit of not less than $15,000. Any person in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a felony.” Following an
automobile accident in which a vehicle driven by the defendant
collided with a vehicle driven by the plaintiff, the defendant was
charged with operating an uninsured vehicle in violation of the statute.
After trial, the defendant was found guilty of violating the section and
sentenced to a term of imprisonment. Subsequently the defendant died,
and the plaintiff commenced an action against the defendant's estate for
personal injuries sustained in the collision. In selecting the jury, the
plaintiff's attorney asked each of the prospective jurors whether he or
she owned stock in any automobile liability insurance carrier. During
the trial of the action, the defendant's attorney offered into evidence a
judgment of the defendant's conviction for driving an uninsured
vehicle. Upon objection by the plaintiff's attorney, the judgment should
be

(A) admitted, since the plaintiff's attorney has falsely suggested that the

defendant was insured at the time of the accident.

(B) excluded, since evidence that a party is or is not covered by

liability insurance is inadmissible to establish fault or freedom
from fault.

(C) excluded, since it is self-serving.

(D) excluded, since it is hearsay, not within any exception to the

hearsay rule.

23. During the trial of a personal injury claim arising from an automobile

accident, the defendant offered a videotape into evidence after
properly marking it for identification and testifying that it was an
accurate representation of the accident scene. On voir dire examination
by the plaintiff's attorney, the defendant stated that he hired a man to
make a videotape of the place where the accident occurred and that the
tape that had been offered in evidence was a copy of the tape made by
the man. He stated further that after the man gave the copy to him, he
mislaid it for several months, and that his wife found it only a few days
before the trial. When asked about the location of the original

609

videotape, the defendant said that he did not know where it was or
even whether it still existed.

Upon objection by the plaintiff's attorney, the court should rule that the
videotape copy is

(A) inadmissible, because the original videotape has not been shown to

be unavailable.

(B) inadmissible, because there is a period of time during which

custody of the videotape cannot be established.

(C) inadmissible, because the man has not authenticated it.

(D) admissible.

24. After his vehicle collided with the plaintiff's on March 1, the defendant
retained an attorney to represent him in any possible litigation that
might develop. The attorney hired a private investigator to interview
the plaintiff regarding the facts of the accident. On March 5, the
investigator followed he plaintiff into a bar, sat next to him, and
engaged him in conversation. During the conversation, the plaintiff
described the accident that he had with the defendant, and said, “Just
between you and me, I drank a six-pack of beer just before the accident
happened. It's a good thing nobody smelled my breath.” Eventually the
plaintiff commenced a personal injury action against the defendant. At
the trial of the action, the plaintiff testified on direct examination that
he had been driving at a slow rate of speed when the defendant's
vehicle suddenly pulled out of a driveway into his path.

On cross-examination, the defendant's attorney asked the plaintiff
whether he had drunk alcohol during the hour prior to the accident.
The plaintiff answered that he had not. The defendant's attorney then
asked, “Didn't you tell an investigator from my office that you had
consumed an entire six-pack of beer just before the accident?” If the
plaintiff's attorney objects to the question, the court should

(A) sustain the objection, since the plaintiff's prior statement was not

made under oath.

(B) sustain the objection, since it was unethical for the defendant's

attorney to make contact with the plaintiff through an investigator.

(C) sustain the objection, since the statement is hearsay not within any

exception to the hearsay rule.

610

(D) overrule the objection.

25. In an action by the seller against the buyer for breach of contract, the

seller's manager testified that after the buyer refused to accept delivery
of merchandise as agreed, he personally arranged for the resale of the
goods at a price that was $3,000 less than that which the buyer had
agreed to pay.

On cross-examination, the buyer's attorney asked, “Didn't you once
plead guilty to violating Penal Code section 22.9(a)?” Which of the
following additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one true,
would most effectively support the seller's objection to the question?

(A) The manager's plea of guilty was the result of a plea bargain after

he had originally been charged with a more serious crime.

(B) The manager subsequently withdrew the guilty plea.

(C) Penal Code section 22.9(a) prohibits operating an automobile

without proper liability insurance coverage.

(D) The manager was not in the employ of the seller at the time of his

guilty plea.

26. The plaintiff was a student at a private high school. One day, while
leaving the school building in the rain, the plaintiff slipped on the
wooden steps that led from the school to the street. He immediately
experienced pain in his elbow, but he got up and went home. Later, the
pain became so severe that he went to see a doctor, who X-rayed the
elbow and told him that it was fractured. Eventually, the plaintiff
commenced an action for negligence against the school, claiming that
the paint that had been used on the wooden steps became extremely
slippery when wet with rain, and that the school was negligent in using
it.

At trial, the plaintiff subpoenaed the school's maintenance manager.
The manager testified that he stripped the old paint from the wooden
steps the day after the plaintiff's accident and repainted the steps with
a paint that did not become slippery when wet with rain. He said he
did so before the school learned of the plaintiff's accident. The
plaintiff offered this testimony as proof that the steps were in a
dangerous condition at the time of the accident. Upon objection by the
school's attorney, the manager's testimony should be

611

(A) admitted, since it is an admission.

(B) admitted, because the steps were stripped and repainted before the

school learned about the plaintiff's accident.

(C) excluded, because it is being offered for the purpose of proving that
the steps were in a dangerous condition at the time of the accident.

(D) excluded, since evidence of subsequent repair is not admissible in

an action for negligence.

27. The plaintiff was crossing the street on foot when she was struck by a

delivery van driven by an employee of the defendant while the
employee was in the process of making a delivery. Following the
accident, the employee was charged with reckless driving and pleaded
not guilty. At the trial on the charge of reckless driving, the employee
testified in his own defense. He stated that at the time of the accident,
he had taken his eyes off the road to look for the address of the place to
which he had to make his delivery, and that as a result, he didn't see the
plaintiff crossing the street.

The plaintiff subsequently brought an action against the defendant
under the theory of respondeat superior for personal injuries resulting
from the employee's negligence. At the trial, the plaintiff proved that
the employee remained in the defendant's employ until the employee
died from causes not related to the accident. The plaintiff then offered
a transcript of the employee's testimony at the reckless driving trial.
Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the transcript should be

(A) admitted, under the prior testimony exception to the hearsay rule.

(B) admitted, under the past recollection recorded exception to the

hearsay rule.

(C) admitted as a vicarious admission, under the public record

exception to the hearsay rule.

(D) excluded as hearsay not within any exception to the hearsay rule.

28. The defendant went to see a lawyer. After the lawyer closed her office
door and only the defendant and the lawyer were in the room, the
defendant asked, “Let's say I was to shoot someone. Would it make a
difference if I tried to pick a fight with him first? If he tried to hit me or
something, would that mean I could maybe claim self-defense?” The
lawyer explained the self-defense privilege to the defendant, and the

612

defendant went on his way. A week later, the defendant shot the victim
during a bar fight.

At trial, the defendant claimed he shot the victim in self-defense. The
prosecution called the lawyer to testify about his conversation with the
defendant. The defendant's attorney objected on the ground of attorney-
client privilege. The objection should be

(A) overruled, because the defendant did not pay the lawyer a fee.

(B) overruled, because the communication related to the carrying out of

a future crime.

(C) sustained, because the lawyer gave the defendant legal advice.

(D) sustained, because the conversation was confidential.

29. The victim was found dead in his garage, hanging by the neck from a
rope tied to a roof beam. His widow brought an action against the
victim's psychiatrist under the state's wrongful death statute. In her
complaint, the widow alleged that the psychiatrist was negligent in his
treatment of the victim, whom he knew or should have known to be
suicidal. In his answer, the psychiatrist denied that he knew the victim
to be suicidal, denied that he had treated him negligently, and denied
that the victim's death was a suicide. At the trial of the wrongful death
action, a nurse employed by the psychiatrist testified that the day
before the victim's death, she heard the victim say to the psychiatrist, “I
think suicide is the only way out.” Upon objection by the psychiatrist's
counsel, which of the following statements is most correct?

(A) The statement should be admitted for the purpose of establishing

that the victim's death was a suicide.

(B) The statement should be admitted for the purpose of establishing

that the psychiatrist knew or should have known that the victim was
suicidal.

(C) The statement should be admitted both for the purpose of

establishing that the victim's death was a suicide and that the
psychiatrist knew or should have known that the victim was
suicidal.

(D) The statement should not be admitted.

30. The defendant, a police officer who had recently joined the police

department, was charged with the murder of his wife. At the trial, the

613

prosecution claimed that while on a visit to the country, the defendant's
wife was walking across a meadow when the defendant shot her from
three-quarters of a mile away with a rifle equipped with a telescopic
sight. The defendant admitted firing the rifle, but he maintained that his
wife's death was an accident. On the presentation of the defendant's
case, his attorney called a firearms expert, who testified that the rifle
was not reliably accurate at any distance in excess of a half-mile.

On direct examination, the defendant's attorney showed the expert a
treatise on guns and asked him whether he had ever heard of it. The
expert said that he had, that the treatise was a recognized authority in
the field of firearms and ballistics, and that he used it in forming his
own opinion regarding the capabilities of the rifle. Over objection by
the prosecutor, the defendant's attorney read the expert a passage of the
treatise that stated that the accurate range of the rifle was a half-mile
and asked whether the expert agreed with that statement. When the
expert said that he did, the defendant's attorney offered the treatise in
evidence. The trial court will most likely

(A) sustain the objection, since direct examination of an expert

regarding the materials that he used in forming his opinion is not
permitted.

(B) sustain the objection, since although the questioning was proper, the

treatise itself is not admissible in evidence.

(C) overrule the objection, since the expert's testimony that the treatise
was a reliable authority laid a proper foundation for admission of
the treatise in evidence.

(D) overrule the objection, since the expert's testimony that he relied on
the treatise in forming his opinion laid a proper foundation for
admission of the treatise in evidence.

31. After the plaintiff was injured in an automobile accident, the plaintiff
sued the defendant for $50,000. Two weeks before trial, the plaintiff
went to the defendant's home and said, “Listen, you were negligent, but
I'm sick of worrying about this and I was texting when the wreck
happened. I'll dismiss my case against you for $10,000.” The defendant
refused the plaintiff's offer and would now like to testify regarding the
plaintiff's statement. May she do so?

(A) Yes, because it is admissible as a party admission.

614

(B) Yes, because it is admissible as a declaration against interest.

(C) No, because it is inadmissible hearsay.

(D) No, because it is inadmissible as an offer to compromise.

32. The defendant was on trial for vandalizing a national monument. The

defendant testified that she did not do it. The defendant wanted to call a
witness who would testify that she has known the defendant for at least
20 years and, in her opinion, the defendant has always been an honest
person. Is the witness's statement admissible?

(A) Yes, because the defendant testified she did not vandalize the

monument.

(B) Yes, because it is admissible to prove defendant's credibility as a

witness in her own defense.

(C) No, because the defendant's character for truthfulness has not been

attacked.

(D) No, because the witness is merely stating her opinion regarding the

defendant's truthfulness.

33. The landlord was the owner of a three-story professional building. The

entire second floor of the landlord's building was rented to an
optometrist. Persons visiting the office of the optometrist either rode in
an elevator located inside the building or climbed a stairway that was
fastened to the outside of the building and that led from the street level
to the second floor only. The plaintiff was a patient of the optometrist.
One day, upon leaving the optometrist's office and descending the
stairway on the outside of the building, the plaintiff fell, sustaining
serious injuries. She commenced an action against the landlord,
alleging that the stairway was dangerous in that it was too steep, it
lacked a handrail, and the stair treads were too narrow. The landlord
denied that the stairway was dangerous. In addition, as an affirmative
defense, he denied control over the stairway, asserting that it had been
leased to the optometrist as part of the second-floor office.

At the trial, the plaintiff called a manager who had been employed by
the landlord as building manager at the time of the accident, but who
was presently unemployed. The manager testified that two days after
the accident, the landlord instructed him to install a handrail on the
stairway and to post a sign that read, “CAUTION: Steep and narrow
stairway!” The landlord's attorney objected to the testimony and

615

moved that it be stricken. Which of the following would be the
plaintiff's most effective argument in response to the objection and in
opposition to the motion to strike?

(A) The manager is no longer in the landlord's employ.

(B) The testimony is relevant to establish that the stairway was

dangerous.

(C) The testimony is relevant to establish that the landlord was aware

that the stairway was dangerous.

(D) The testimony is relevant to establish that the landlord was in

control of the stairway.

34. The plaintiff and the defendant were employed as clerks in the law

office of an attorney. They disliked each other intensely. On February
6, they argued bitterly, almost coming to blows. Later, the plaintiff
went to the company parking lot and discovered that the tires and
canvas top on his car had been slashed with a knife. Angrily, he
returned to the office and accused the defendant of the vandalism in the
presence of the attorney, saying, “I dare you to deny it.” The plaintiff
subsequently instituted a tort action against the defendant for damage to
his car. At the trial, the attorney testified on behalf of the plaintiff.
After describing the events that took place in his office on February 6,
he stated that when the plaintiff dared the defendant to deny damaging
his car, the defendant said nothing. The attorney stated that he, the
attorney, then said, “If I thought you did this, I'd have to fire you. Now,
did you?” and that the defendant still said nothing. The attorney
testified further that he gave the defendant another opportunity to deny
the plaintiff's accusation, and that after the defendant refused once
again to answer, the attorney fired him. If the defendant's attorney
objected to the testimony, the court should

(A) overrule the objection, because the reasonable person in the

defendant's situation would have denied slashing the tires and
canvas top.

(B) overrule the objection, since the defendant is a party to the action
and will have an opportunity to deny making the statement.

(C) sustain the objection, since silence cannot be used as an admission

or form the basis for civil liability.

(D) sustain the objection, since answering the attorney's question might

616

have tended to incriminate the defendant.

35. In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the plaintiff alleged
that it had entered into a written contract with the defendant for the
purchase of satin material that the plaintiff intended to use in
manufacturing its products, and that the defendant failed to deliver the
material as promised. At the trial, an employee testified that he worked
in the plaintiff's legal department, and that he had negotiated the
contract in question. He stated further that, although the original and all
copies of the contract had been destroyed in an office fire, he knew the
substance of its contents. When the plaintiff's attorney began to
question the employee about the contents of the contract, the defendant
objected. The trial court should

(A) sustain the objection, since the employee's testimony would violate

the parol evidence rule.

(B) sustain the objection, since the employee's testimony would violate

the best evidence rule.

(C) overrule the objection, since the absence of the original document

has been explained.

(D) overrule the objection, since the Statute of Frauds is satisfied by
the fact that a written memorandum of agreement was made.

36. The plaintiff sued the defendant, claiming that she slipped on a puddle
of water in the defendant's grocery store. The plaintiff called a witness
who the plaintiff's lawyer expected to say that she had seen the puddle
40 minutes before the plaintiff slipped, and that she informed the store
manager of the puddle. Instead, the witness said, “I never saw any
puddle.” Surprised, the plaintiff's lawyer then called the witness's
neighbor, who proposed to testify that the day after the accident she
was working in her backyard when the witness leaned over the fence
and told her, “That puddle was there for over an hour — and I told the
store manager about it!” The neighbor's testimony is admissible

(A) as truth of the matter asserted.

(B) only to impeach the witness.

(C) as evidence of material fact.

(D) because there are other “circumstantial guarantees of
trustworthiness” regarding the neighbor's statement.

617

37. Suspecting that some students were trafficking in illegal drugs, a
college chancellor requested assistance from the state police in
apprehending the traffickers. In response to the request, an undercover
police officer registered at the college as a student. While attending
classes, the officer became friendly with the defendant, who was
rumored to be involved in the illicit drug traffic. One day, while
chatting with the defendant, the officer said, “Hey, how about selling
me some heroin?” The defendant responded by saying, “I don't know
what you're talking about.” But the officer said, “Come on, everybody
knows about it. And I really need the stuff.” The defendant again
denied knowing anything about drugs, but the officer insisted,
displaying a $50 bill. “I'm really strung out,” the officer said. “I'll give
you $50 for stuff worth $25. Come on. How about it?” At this, the
defendant handed the officer a packet of heroin and took the $50 bill.
The defendant was subsequently arrested and charged with the
unauthorized sale of a dangerous drug. At his trial, he asserted the
defense of entrapment. The prosecution offered the testimony of
several other students, who stated that on various occasions in the past,
they had purchased heroin from the defendant. The defendant's attorney
objected to the introduction of the testimony of the students. The
objection should have been

(A) sustained, since character evidence is not admissible against a

defendant in a criminal proceeding.

(B) sustained, since proof of unconvicted bad acts is not admissible for

the purpose of establishing a person's character.

(C) overruled, since such evidence would tend to prove that the

defendant was predisposed to commit the crime with which he has
been charged.

(D) overruled, since evidence of past conduct is relevant to establish
that a defendant engaged in criminal behavior on a particular
occasion.

38. The plaintiff slipped on a wet spot on the floor of the produce

department in a supermarket. He commenced an action for damages
two years and 11 months later, just before the three-year statute of
limitations would have run out. In her opening statement at the trial of
the action, the supermarket's attorney said that it was her client's
contention that the delay in instituting action indicated that the plaintiff
had not sustained any real injury and that the damages claimed by the

618

plaintiff were fabricated.

The plaintiff testified in his own behalf. During cross-examination, the
supermarket's attorney asked him when he consulted for the first time
with an attorney regarding the accident. The plaintiff answered, “Not
until a few months ago, because a man from the supermarket offered to
settle for $3,000, and I was trying to get a better offer.”

If the supermarket's attorney moved to strike that part of the answer
that referred to settlement negotiations, the motion to strike should be

(A) denied, since evidence of the settlement negotiations is admissible

to explain the plaintiff's delay in instituting the action.

(B) denied, since the settlement offer is relevant to establish that the

supermarket believed itself to be at fault.

(C) granted, since a policy rule prevents evidence of settlement

negotiations from being admitted.

(D) granted, since that portion of the answer was not responsive to the

question asked.

39. Executing a valid warrant, police raided an adult theater, lawfully

arresting its owner and lawfully seizing a copy of the film that he was
showing. The owner was subsequently charged with “conducting an
obscene film performance” in violation of a state law.

At trial, the prosecution called a professor to the stand. The professor
testified that she was a professor of film arts and the author of several
books on the art of erotic filmmaking. She said that although she
believed the erotic film to be a valid art form, she found the film at
issue to be devoid of any literary or artistic merit. She stated further
that in her opinion it was obscene. In objecting to this testimony, which
of the following would be the owner's most effective argument?

(A) The professor's opinion relates to an ultimate issue in the

prosecution.

(B) The professor's opinion is stated in legal terms.

(C) The professor does not qualify as an expert.

(D) Since the matter at issue is a subjective one, expert testimony is

inadmissible.

619

40. After bonds that the plaintiff purchased from the defendant proved to

be worthless, the plaintiff instituted an action against the defendant for
breach of contract and misrepresentation. At the trial, the plaintiff's
attorney subpoenaed the defendant's chief bookkeeper. The bookkeeper
appeared in court in response to the subpoena but refused to take the
stand. The trial judge told the bookkeeper that unless he took the stand,
he would be held in contempt of court. The bookkeeper continued to
refuse, asserting his privilege against self-incrimination under the Fifth
Amendment to the United States Constitution. He reasonably believed
that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. Should the bookkeeper
be held in contempt?

(A) Yes, since the privilege against self-incrimination applies only to

testimony at criminal proceedings.

(B) Yes, since the bookkeeper was not a party to the proceeding.

(C) Yes, since the privilege against self-incrimination does not justify a

refusal to take the stand in a civil proceeding.

(D) No, since the bookkeeper reasonably believed that his testimony

could tend to incriminate him.

41. The plaintiff sued the defendant claiming that she was bit when the
defendant's dog escaped from the defendant's yard and attacked her.
The defendant argued that she didn't own a dog. The plaintiff's lawyer
called the witness, expecting the witness to say that the defendant had
owned the dog for at least three years, and that her dog was the dog that
bit the plaintiff. Instead, the witness testified, “I've never seen a dog
around the defendant's property. In fact, the defendant is allergic.”
Surprised, the plaintiff's lawyer introduced a statement made by the
witness at deposition where the witness said, “The defendant has
owned that crazy dog for three years. And it has bitten everyone,
including the plaintiff.” The witness's deposition statement is
admissible as

(A) proof that the defendant owned the dog that bit the plaintiff.

(B) for impeachment purposes only.

(C) because the statement is necessary in the interests of justice.

(D) as a statement against interest.

42. The defendant, who was charged with armed robbery, retained an

attorney. In preparing the defense of his client, the attorney interviewed

620

the defendant's friend. The friend told the attorney that he and the
defendant had been together at a baseball game at the time of the
robbery. At the defendant's trial, the attorney called the friend to the
stand and asked if he had seen the defendant on the day of the robbery.
The friend said that he had not. The attorney subsequently called
another witness to testify that he had seen the friend and the defendant
together at the baseball stadium at the time of the robbery. The trial
judge should rule that the witness's testimony is

(A) inadmissible, because the attorney cannot impeach his own

witness.

(B) inadmissible, because the attorney is bound by the testimony of his

own witness.

(C) admissible, because the friend is a hostile witness.

(D) admissible, because the witness's testimony is relevant to material

issues.

43. A man and woman were in a car accident. Although the woman was
unhurt, the man was severely injured. The man looked at the woman
and said, “I know I'm about to die. I never told you this, but me and
[the defendant] murdered the doctor last year. He owed us money.” The
man then died. The defendant was later prosecuted for the murder, and
the prosecution called the woman to testify to the above statement by
the man. The man's statement is

(A) inadmissible hearsay.

(B) admissible under the excited utterance exception.

(C) admissible as a dying declaration.

(D) admissible as a present sense impression.

44. The plaintiff sued the defendant for damage that resulted from a

collision between the plaintiff's motorcycle and one of the defendant's
trucks. After receiving the summons, the president and sole stockholder
of the defendant notified the company attorney. The attorney said that
she wanted to meet with the president and the driver of the truck. At the
attorney's request, the president went to the attorney's office with the
driver who had been driving the truck at the time of the accident. While
discussing the case with the attorney in the presence of the driver, the
president said that on the day before the accident, he was aware that
the truck's brakes were not working properly but that because of his

621

heavy workload, he postponed making the necessary repairs.

At the trial of the plaintiff's suit against the defendant, the plaintiff
attempted to have the driver testify to the statement that the president
made to the attorney about the brakes. The defendant's attorney
objected on the ground of the attorney-client privilege.

Should the driver be permitted to testify to the president's statement?

(A) Yes, because the attorney-client privilege does not apply to

testimony by one who does not stand in a confidential relationship
with the person against whom the evidence is offered.

(B) Yes, because it is presumed that a communication made in the

presence of third persons is not confidential.

(C) Yes, because communications made by or on behalf of corporations

are not privileged.

(D) No.

45. At trial, a witness testified that on the day of the incident, she looked
up the defendant's number in the phone book and dialed it, and that a
male voice answered and said he was the defendant. The witness
stated further that she then asked, “Are you the animal that exposed his
privates to my daughter?” to which the voice replied, “Yes, I couldn't
help myself.” Finally, the witness testified that she was familiar with
the defendant's voice and recognized it when she was speaking to him
on the phone.

If the defendant's attorney objects to the witness's testimony regarding
the identification of the defendant's voice, the judge should rule this
testimony

(A) admissible, since the usual accuracy of the telephone directory,

coupled with the self-identification of the person who answered,
makes it likely that the person who answered was the defendant.

(B) admissible, since there is a presumption that a person who
gratuitously identifies himself or herself when answering a
telephone will do so accurately.

(C) admissible, because the witness testified that she was familiar with
the defendant's voice and recognized it when speaking to him on the
phone.

622

(D) inadmissible, as a violation of the defendant's privilege against

self-incrimination.

46. The plaintiff was in a motorcycle accident that shattered his leg. The
leg became severely infected after the defendant surgeon replaced the
plaintiff's shattered bone with cadaver bone. The infection led to the
eventual amputation of the plaintiff's leg. The plaintiff sued the
defendant for medical malpractice. At trial, the plaintiff called the
defendant as a witness. The only question that the plaintiff asked was,
“Did you perform the cadaver bone operation?” The defendant
answered “yes.” The plaintiff turned the defendant over to the
defendant's lawyer, who asked the defendant, “Wasn't the leg damage
so severe that it would have been amputated anyway even if you hadn't
tried to insert the cadaver bone?” The plaintiff's lawyer objected. The
court should

(A) sustain the objection, because the direct examiner has the right to

control the presentation of his or her case.

(B) sustain the objection, because the question goes beyond the scope

of direct.

(C) overrule the objection, because the question involves the

defendant's credibility.

(D) overrule the objection, because the question is within the scope of

the direct examination.

47. The defendant was on trial for the murder of his wife. The prosecution
wants to put the defendant's neighbor on the stand, who will testify that
she was watching television one evening when a friend of hers banged
on her front door and shouted, “I was jogging by and your neighbor just
came outside covered in blood and told me he shot his wife!” The
friend was then in an auto accident a few days later and now lies in a
coma.

Can the neighbor testify regarding her friend's statement?

(A) Yes, because it was an excited utterance.

(B) Yes, because the friend is now in a coma and cannot testify herself.

(C) No, because it is inadmissible hearsay.

(D) No, because the statement is being offered for its truth.

623

48. In a personal injury action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the

plaintiff claimed that the accident occurred because the defendant, who
was operating a blue Ford sedan, was driving at an excessive rate of
speed. At the trial, the plaintiff's attorney called the witness as a
witness on the plaintiff's direct case. The witness testified that after
hearing a broadcast on a police radio on the day of the accident, she
looked out her window and saw the defendant's blue Ford sedan strike
the plaintiff's red convertible on Main Street. The witness said that she
did not have a present recollection of what she had heard on the police
radio, but that she made a written note of it immediately following the
broadcast. The plaintiff's attorney showed her a piece of paper that had
been marked for identification, and the witness said that she now
remembered that she had heard a police dispatcher saying that officers
were in pursuit of a blue Ford sedan that was traveling down Main
Street at an excessive rate of speed.

If the defendant's attorney objects to the testimony of the witness
regarding what she heard on the police radio, the court should hold
that her testimony is

(A) inadmissible as hearsay, not within any exception.

(B) admissible as a sense impression.

(C) admissible as a past recollection recorded.

(D) admissible as present recollection refreshed.

49. At the trial of a personal injury action instituted by the plaintiff against
the defendant, the defendant testified on his own behalf as part of his
direct case. In response to a question by his attorney, the defendant
stated that shortly after the accident, he told a police officer that the
traffic signal light had been red against the plaintiff. Upon objection by
the plaintiff's attorney, the court should hold that the defendant's
testimony regarding his statement to the police officer is

(A) inadmissible hearsay.

(B) admissible, because the defendant's testimony was based on

firsthand knowledge.

(C) admissible as a prior consistent statement.

(D) admissible, because the defendant was on the witness stand and

available for cross-examination.

624

50. Charged with the rape of the victim, the defendant claimed that he and
the victim had frequently engaged in sexual intercourse in the past, and
that they sometimes played a game in which the victim pretended to
resist him and he pretended to overcome her resistance by force. He
asserted that on the day of the alleged rape, either the victim consented
to the intercourse or her conduct led him to reasonably believe that she
consented. At his trial, the victim testified that the defendant forced her
to have sexual intercourse with him on the day in question. On cross-
examination, the defendant's attorney asked the victim whether she ever
had sexual intercourse with the defendant willingly before the alleged
rape. If the prosecutor objects to this question, the objection should be

(A) sustained, since past sexual behavior of the complainant is not

material to the allegations of a rape prosecution.

(B) sustained, since the probative value of her answer is likely to be

outweighed by its prejudicial effect.

(C) overruled, in the absence of a statute prohibiting the inquiry, since
the complainant's past sexual behavior is logically relevant to the
elements of a rape prosecution.

(D) overruled, since the question and the testimony that it will elicit are

relevant to the defendant's defense of consent.

51. A state statute provides that the owner of any motor vehicle operated
on the public roads of the state is liable for damage resulting from the
negligence of any person driving the vehicle with the owner's
permission. The plaintiff was injured when a vehicle operated by a
man struck her while she was walking across the street. At the scene of
the accident, the man apologized to the plaintiff, saying, “I'm sorry. It
isn't my car. I didn't know that the brakes were bad.” The plaintiff
subsequently instituted an action against the defendant for her damages,
asserting that the defendant owned the vehicle. She alleged that the
defendant was negligent in permitting the vehicle to be driven while he
knew that the brakes were in need of repair and that he was vicariously
liable under the statute for the negligence of the man. The defendant
denied ownership of the vehicle. At the trial, the plaintiff offered
testimony by a mechanic that on the day after the accident, the
defendant hired him to completely overhaul the brakes. Upon objection
by the defendant, the evidence is

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(A) admissible, to show that the defendant was the owner of the

625

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

vehicle.

(B) admissible, to show that the brakes were in need of repair on the

day of the accident.

(C) inadmissible, because the condition of the vehicle on any day other
than that of the accident is irrelevant to show its condition at the
time the accident occurred.

(D) inadmissible, under a policy that encourages safety precautions.

52. A hidden videotape camera at the office of a finance company routinely
records all transactions taking place during business hours. At the trial
of the defendant, a black man charged with robbing the company, the
prosecution offers a videotape made by the hidden camera at the time
the robbery occurred. The defendant's attorney objects to introduction
of the videotape on the ground that, while it is clear from the tape that
the robber was a black man, there is no certainty that the man pictured
was the defendant. Should the objection be sustained?

(A) Yes, since use of the tape violates the defendant's privilege against

self-incrimination.

(B) Yes, because the tape's value is outweighed by unfair prejudice.

(C) No, because if the defendant is pictured in the tape, it is admissible

as an admission.

(D) No, because the tape would tend to prove that the defendant was

the robber.

53. During a road rage incident, the victim was punched in the face. The
defendant was then prosecuted for assault. At trial, a witness was
called by the prosecution to testify. The witness stated that the victim
came to her apartment two days after the incident and told her, “[the
defendant] punched me in the face because he thought I was talking on
my cellphone and not paying attention to my driving.” The witness's
testimony is

(A) admissible as an excited utterance.

(B) admissible as a present sense impression.

(C) admissible as a declaration against the defendant's interest.

(D) inadmissible.

54. At the defendant's trial for murder, the witness testified that he heard

626

three gunshots immediately after hearing the defendant shout, “I'll kill
you!” The defendant's attorney asked no questions on cross-
examination but reserved the right to call the witness back to the stand
at a later time. Subsequently, the defendant's attorney offered the
testimony of a police officer who stated that, in an interview at the
scene of the shooting, the witness said that he did not hear any
gunshots. The police officer's testimony is

(A) admissible for impeachment purposes only.

(B) admissible as substantive evidence only.

(C) admissible for impeachment purposes and as substantive evidence.

(D) inadmissible, since it is hearsay not within any exception.

55. After derailment of a passenger train, the train corporation was
charged with criminal negligence under a statute that made
corporations criminally liable for the criminal negligence of their
employees. At trial, a state railroad inspector testified that on the day
of the derailment, the driver of the derailed train was operating the
train while intoxicated. The jury found the corporation not guilty of
criminal negligence. A passenger on the derailed train subsequently
instituted an action against the corporation for personal injuries that he
sustained as a result of the derailment. Although the passenger's
attorney properly served the inspector with a subpoena, he failed to
appear at the trial. If the passenger's attorney offers evidence of the
testimony that the inspector gave at the criminal proceeding, the
evidence is most likely to be admissible as

(A) an admission.

(B) past recollection recorded.

(C) former testimony.

(D) a present sense impression.

56. The defendant had been a member of a professional crime organization
for 20 years and had participated in many crimes during that period of
time. Because the defendant's testimony was crucial to the district
attorney's attempt to break the crime organization, the defendant was
offered transactional immunity if he would testify against other
members of the organization. He did so, and his testimony resulted in
several convictions. The defendant subsequently wrote and published a
book in which he described in detail many of the crimes that he

627

committed, including the shotgun murder of the victim. Following the
publication, the victim's wife commenced an action against the
defendant for damages resulting from the wrongful death of her
husband. At the trial, a police officer who had been called to the scene
of the victim's shooting testified that just before the victim died, he
heard him say, “I'm dying. I saw [the defendant] pull the trigger on me.”
The jurisdiction has a “dead man's statute.” If the defendant moves to
strike the police officer's testimony, his motion should be

(A) granted, since a dying declaration is admissible only in a trial for

criminal homicide.

(B) granted, since the defendant received transactional immunity.

(C) denied, since the victim believed himself to be dying when he made

the statement.

(D) denied, since the jurisdiction has a “dead man's statute.”

57. After the crash of an airplane, an action for wrongful death was

brought by the husband of a passenger killed in the crash. During the
trial, the plaintiff called an employee of the State Aviation Agency that
investigated the circumstances surrounding the crash.

The witness testified that during the course of his investigation, he
questioned a mechanic on the day of the crash. He said that the
mechanic stated that he and another mechanic had been assigned by the
airport supervisor to inspect the flight before takeoff, but that they did
not inspect the plane as directed. He also testified that the mechanic
claimed to be an employee of the airline. Independent evidence
indicated that the mechanic was employed by the airline and
authorized to speak for it at the time the statement was made. The
mechanic was unavailable to testify. If the witness's testimony is
objected to, the judge should rule it admissible

(A) because the witness testified that the mechanic claimed to be an

employee of the airline.

(B) because independent evidence indicated that the mechanic was
employed by the airline at the time the statement was made.

(C) because independent evidence indicated that at the time the

statement was made, the mechanic was authorized to speak for the
airline.

628

(D) because the mechanic is unavailable to testify.

58. The plaintiff was injured when the ladder on which she was standing
collapsed without warning. Immediately following the accident, the
plaintiff was taken to the hospital, where she remained for
approximately six hours. At the trial of the plaintiff's action against the
manufacturer of the ladder, a nurse employed by the hospital was
called to the stand by the plaintiff's counsel.

The nurse testified that he was on duty when the plaintiff was brought
into the hospital, and that the plaintiff complained of pain almost
continually from the time she arrived until the time she left. Upon
proper objection by the defendant, this testimony should be

(A) admitted, as a part of a pertinent medical history.

(B) admitted, as a statement of present physical sensation.

(C) not admitted, since pain is a purely subjective matter and not a
proper subject of testimony by anyone but the injured party.

(D) not admitted, since it is hearsay.

59. The defendant's dog frequently dug holes in the lawn of the plaintiff,
who had telephoned the defendant to complain in a loud voice on
several occasions. One day, after the dog dug up the plaintiff's prize
rosebush, the plaintiff ran to the defendant's house and banged on the
defendant's front door. When the defendant opened the door, the
plaintiff shouted, “You jerk!” The defendant struck him in the face with
his fist and closed the door. The plaintiff later sued the defendant for
battery, and the defendant asserted the privilege of self-defense. At the
trial, the defendant offered the testimony of a local shopkeeper, who
stated that he knew the plaintiff's reputation in the neighborhood and
that the plaintiff was known as “a bad actor who will fight at the drop
of a hat.”

If the plaintiff's attorney objects to the testimony of the shopkeeper, the
objection should be

(A) sustained, since evidence of the plaintiff's character is not relevant

to his action for battery.

(B) sustained, since the plaintiff is not the defendant.

(C) overruled, since the testimony is relevant to the defendant's

629

assertion of the privilege of self-defense.

(D) overruled, since the plaintiff placed his character in issue by

bringing the lawsuit.

60. At the trial of a negligence action, a doctor testified that she was the
orthopedic surgeon who treated the plaintiff. She stated that, at her
direction, technicians in her office X-rayed the plaintiff's left leg. She
stated further that, based upon her examination of the plaintiff's leg and
upon her study of the X-ray, it was her opinion that the plaintiff had
suffered a fracture of the tibia (a bone in the leg). She said she would
have formed the same opinion without inspection of the X-ray. The X-
ray was unavailable. Upon proper objection by the defendant, the
doctor's opinion should be

(A) excluded, because the X-ray was hearsay and she stated that her

opinion was based on it.

(B) admitted, because the X-ray is unavailable.

(C) admitted, because she testified that she would have formed the

same opinion without inspection of the X-ray.

(D) admitted, since the opinion of an expert may be based on matters

not in evidence.

61. While walking down a stairway that led to the women's restroom at a
theater, the plaintiff fell and sustained serious injuries to her shoulder.
She sued the theater for damages, alleging that it had negligently
permitted the stairway to be littered with scraps of paper and that she
had slipped on one of them.

At trial, the witness testified that he had been employed as the theater's
manager for a period of three weeks prior to the accident, that as such,
he was the person to whom accidents would ordinarily be reported,
and that in the three-week period preceding the accident, he had
received no reports of accident or injury occurring on those particular
stairs. The judge should rule this testimony

(A) admissible, because it tends to prove that the plaintiff did not use
the care that would have been exercised by a reasonable person.

(B) admissible, because it tends to prove that the theater was generally

careful about maintaining the stairway.

(C) inadmissible, because it is self-serving.

630

(D) inadmissible, because it is not probative of the theater's exercise of

due care on this particular occasion.

62. A man was dying of cancer, and his doctors only gave him a few

moments to live. The man gathered his family around his bed, including
his brother, and said, “I'm dying. I want all of you to know that [the
defendant] and I were the ones who murdered the police chief last
year.” Soon thereafter, against all odds, the man recovered and fled to
a small island off the coast of South America. The defendant was later
prosecuted for the murder, and the prosecution called the man's brother
to testify to the above statement by the man. The man's statement is

(A) admissible as a dying declaration.

(B) admissible as an excited utterance.

(C) inadmissible because the man did not die.

(D) inadmissible because it was hearsay not within any exception.

63. At the trial of an action for personal injuries resulting from an

automobile accident that occurred in the city, a witness testified for the
defendant. He stated that he was standing on a street corner at the time
of the accident and observed the plaintiff's car go through a red light.
The plaintiff's attorney had information indicating that the witness was
not even in the city on the day of the accident and had actually been
observed on that day committing an armed robbery in another city
located at the other end of the state. On cross-examination, she asked,
“Weren't you actually robbing a store in another city on the day this
accident occurred?” The witness refused to answer, invoking the
privilege against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the
United States Constitution. Over objection by the defendant's attorney,
the judge ordered that the witness's entire testimony be stricken.
Subsequently, the defendant appealed from a judgment for the plaintiff,
asserting that the trial court erred in striking the witness's testimony.
Which of the following would be the plaintiff's most effective argument
in response to the defendant's assertion?

(A) The privilege against self-incrimination is effective only in

criminal proceedings.

(B) The trial record, independent of the witness's testimony, does not

indicate that the witness's answer would incriminate him.

(C) Since the trial determined the rights of persons other than the

631

witness, the requirement of due process outweighed the witness's
privilege against self-incrimination.

(D) The witness's refusal to answer prevented adequate cross-

examination.

64. The defendant, a college student, was charged with the attempted
murder of the victim, a fellow student, outside one of the college
classrooms. At trial, the defendant's attorney called the school's dean
of students to the witness stand. The dean testified that immediately
following the stabbing that led to the prosecution, she interviewed the
defendant, and he stated that when the victim insulted him, he stabbed
the victim in anger. She testified further that she had taken notes of the
conversation, which she then placed in the defendant's student file. If
the prosecutor offered the defendant's student file in evidence as a
business record, which of the following would be the defendant's most
effective argument in support of an objection to the admission of the
file?

(A) The dean had an independent recollection of the events and was

present in court to testify.

(B) The investigation of crimes is not a regularly conducted business

activity for the college.

(C) The business record exception to the hearsay rule does not apply in

criminal trials.

(D) The defendant's statement is second-level hearsay.

65. In a challenge to the will of the deceased, opponents of the will called
the deceased's next-door neighbor to the stand. The neighbor testified
that she had observed the deceased acting strangely for several months
before and after the date on which his will had been executed. When
asked to specify in what way his behavior was strange, she said that he
frequently appeared in his front yard wearing nothing but a towel and a
football helmet, turning his face to the sky and shouting, “Bring on the
saucers! I'm ready to do battle!” She said that there were also times
when she found him wandering about the street in a daze, and that on
several occasions she had to take him home because he told her that he
didn't know where he was. In rebuttal, proponents of the will called a
doctor to the stand. The doctor testified that he had seen the deceased
only three days before the execution of the will for his semiannual
medical checkup and that he did not observe any strange behavior at

632

that or any other time. If opponents of the will seek to exclude the
doctor's statement from evidence, the statement should be

(A) excluded, since evidence that abnormal behavior was not observed
is inadmissible to establish the sanity or competence of a decedent.

(B) excluded, because the doctor's testimony does not indicate a
sufficient opportunity to observe the deceased's behavior.

(C) admitted, because the opponents of the will opened the door by

introducing the testimony of the neighbor.

(D) admitted, since a medical doctor may qualify as an expert on the

sanity of a patient.

66. At the trial of the plaintiff's personal injury action against the

defendant, the witness was called as a witness on the plaintiff's direct
case. The witness, a police officer, testified that he arrived at the scene
of the accident about 10 minutes after it occurred. He stated that when
he got there, he had a conversation with another police officer who
was already on the scene. When the witness said that he had no
independent recollection regarding the nature of their conversation, the
plaintiff's attorney showed him a copy of an official police report and
asked whether he recognized it. The witness identified it as the report
that he filed following his investigation of the accident. The plaintiff's
attorney offered the report in evidence. The defendant's attorney
objected to its admission on the ground that it contained the following
statement:

The other officer reports that an unidentified witness told him that the
defendant went through a red light without stopping.

Should the police report be admitted into evidence?

(A) Yes, because the witness used it to refresh his recollection while

testifying.

(B) Yes, because it is a business record.

(C) No, because a police report is not a record kept in the usual course

of business.

(D) No, because neither the witness nor the other officer saw the

accident.

67. The buyer, a United States importer, contracted with the seller, a Dutch

633

manufacturer, for the purchase of trivets to be manufactured in the
Netherlands by the seller. When the seller delivered the trivets,
however, the buyer refused to accept them, asserting that he had
contracted for genuine porcelain and that the trivets delivered by the
seller were imitation porcelain. The buyer died shortly afterwards.
The seller sued the buyer's estate in the United States for breach of
contract, claiming that he explained to the buyer during negotiations
that the trivets would be made of imitation porcelain.

At trial, the attorney for the buyer's estate called the buyer's brother as
a witness. The brother testified that he was an expert in Dutch and had
been present at the negotiations between the buyer and the seller. He
said that the seller and the buyer asked him to assist by translating
when necessary because neither spoke the other's language very well.
He stated further that when the trivets were being discussed, the seller
said something in Dutch that the buyer said he did not understand. The
buyer then asked his brother to translate, and the brother replied, “He
says that the trivets will be genuine porcelain.” The jurisdiction has a
“dead man's statute.” The seller's attorney objected to the brother's last
statement and asked the court to exclude it from the record.

The brother's statement should be

(A) admitted, because it is relevant to the buyer's intention at the time

the contract was formed.

(B) admitted, because the jurisdiction has a “dead man's statute.”

(C) admitted, because the brother qualified as an expert on the Dutch

language.

(D) excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

68. After receiving a tip, police officers stopped a car being driven by the

defendant and forced him to open the trunk. In it, the officers
discovered a canvas bag containing seven pounds of cocaine. They
seized the car and the cocaine as evidence and placed the defendant
under arrest. Without advising him of his rights to remain silent and to
consult with an attorney, they questioned him about the cocaine. During
the questioning, the defendant said, “I don't know anything about it. It
isn't even my car.”

The defendant was charged with illegal possession of a controlled

634

substance. Subsequently, the defendant's motion to suppress the use of
the cocaine as evidence was granted, and the charges against him were
dismissed. The defendant thereupon commenced an appropriate
proceeding against the police department for recovery of his
automobile. On presentation of his direct case, the defendant testified
that he owned the seized automobile but had registered it to a friend
for purposes of convenience. On cross-examination, the attorney
representing the police department asked, “After your arrest, did you
tell the arresting officers that it wasn't your car?”

If the defendant's attorney objects to this question, the objection should
be

(A) sustained, because the defendant's interrogation was in violation of

his Miranda rights.

(B) sustained, because the defendant's motion to suppress was granted.

(C) overruled, because the automobile in which the cocaine was

transported is “fruit of the poisonous tree.”

(D) overruled, because his denial that he owned the car was a prior

inconsistent statement.

69. In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant for breach of contract,
the attorney for the plaintiff called an employee as a witness. The
employee testified that she was the employee of the plaintiff in charge
of the defendant's account. She said that on May 17, she had supervised
a shipment of dyes to the defendant. She stated that she did not
personally inspect the shipment but that immediately after the company
shipping clerk inspected the shipment, he told her its contents and she
listed them on an invoice and signed it. A copy of the invoice was then
sent to the defendant in accordance with standard company practice.
She said that she no longer had any independent recollection of what
the shipment contained, but that the original invoice was now in the
hands of the company attorney. When the attorney representing the
plaintiff showed her a document and asked her to identify it, she said
that it was the invoice to which she had referred, and that the signature
on it was her own. When the attorney for the plaintiff offered it in
evidence, the attorney for the defendant objected.

If the court admits the invoice into evidence, it will most probably be
as

635

(A) past recollection recorded.

(B) a record kept in the usual course of business.

(C) an original document under the best evidence rule.

(D) present recollection refreshed.

70. The plaintiff was a commercial furniture-finisher. The defendant was a
manufacturer of commercial furniture-finishing supplies. In an action
by the plaintiff against the defendant for breach of contract, a dispute
arose as to the meaning of the term “unit of lacquer,” which appeared
in a contract between the parties. The witness, an officer of the
plaintiff, testified on her company's direct case.

The witness testified that in the furniture-finishing industry the term
“unit of lacquer” means 55 gallons of lacquer. If the defendant's
attorney objects, the witness's testimony should be

(A) excluded as a self-serving statement.

(B) excluded as hearsay, not within any exception to the hearsay rule.

(C) admitted as evidence of business habit.

(D) admitted, because it serves to establish a trade usage.

71. At the defendant's trial on a charge of rape, the victim testified that
after meeting him in a bar, she accompanied the defendant to his
apartment, where he forced her to have sexual intercourse with him
against her will. The defendant's attorney did not cross-examine the
victim.

In his opening statement, the defendant's attorney said that although his
client admitted to having sexual intercourse with the victim shortly
after they first met on the night in question, he intended to prove that
the victim consented to the intercourse. Then, on direct presentation of
the defendant's case, his attorney attempted to offer evidence of the
victim's prior sexual conduct with other men.

Upon objection by the prosecution, this evidence should be

(A) admitted for the purpose of impeachment only.

(B) admitted as substantive evidence only.

(C) admitted as substantive evidence and for the purpose of

636

impeachment.

(D) excluded.

72. In the trial of a tort action in a United States district court, if the

substantive law of the state is being applied, which of the following
statements is correct regarding confidential communications between
psychotherapist and patient?

(A) The United States district court MUST recognize the

psychotherapist-patient privilege if it is recognized by the law of
the state.

(B) The United States district court MAY recognize the

psychotherapist-patient privilege even if it is not recognized by the
law of the state.

(C) The United States district court MAY recognize the

psychotherapist-patient privilege if it is recognized by the law of
the state.

(D) The United States district court does not need to make any notice of

state law.

73. In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant for personal injuries
resulting from negligence, the plaintiff's attorney called the witness as
a witness on the plaintiff's direct case. The witness's testimony was
offered to prove that the plaintiff suffered physical pain from his
injuries. The witness testified that she was the plaintiff's mother, and
that during the weeks following the accident, she observed the plaintiff
taking pink pills on several occasions. The plaintiff's attorney then
asked the witness if she knew why the plaintiff was taking the pink
pills. When the defendant's attorney objected, the plaintiff's attorney
withdrew the question and asked whether the witness was present
when the doctor examined the plaintiff the day after the accident. The
witness responded that she heard the plaintiff say, “My neck hurts,” and
that the doctor handed the plaintiff the pink pills and said, “These pink
pills are very effective for pain.”

If the defendant's attorney moves to exclude the witness's testimony
about what the doctor said, that testimony should be

(A) admitted as a declaration of present physical sensation.

(B) admitted as a declaration of past physical sensation.

637

(C) excluded as hearsay, not within any exception to the hearsay rule.

(D) admitted as evidence of a medical history.

74. The defendant pleaded not guilty to a charge of committing an armed

robbery of a bank. When the defendant appeared in court on the day of
the trial, his head was completely bald.

The prosecuting attorney called the employee as a witness on the
prosecution's direct case. The employee testified that she was
employed by the bank, and that she was present when the robbery was
committed. She stated that the robber had bushy red hair. When asked
whether the defendant was the robber, she looked at him sitting in the
courtroom and said that she was not sure. The prosecuting attorney
then asked her whether she had identified the defendant as the robber
at a lineup conducted on the day of the robbery. If the defendant's
attorney objects to that question, the objection should be

(A) sustained, since her statement is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) sustained, since the prosecuting attorney may not impeach his own

witness.

(C) overruled, since the employee is on the witness stand and available

for cross-examination.

(D) overruled, since the employee is a disinterested witness.

75. The plaintiff sued the defendant, alleging that the defendant was

negligent in building a new office building. The plaintiff called a well-
known engineer as an expert witness. During the engineer's direct
testimony, the engineer identified a book as a reliable authority in the
field. How may the book be used at trial?

(A) It may be given to the jury to examine in the presence of the judge.

(B) The engineer may read relevant passages to the jury.

(C) The jury may take the book with them into the jury room.

(D) While the engineer may have relied on the book in forming his
opinion, he may not read from the book or give it to the jury.

76. The defendant was charged with the second degree murder of the

victim under a statute that defined that crime as “the unlawful killing of
a human being with malice aforethought, but without premeditation.”
The defendant's attorney asserted a defense of insanity and called the

638

defendant as a witness on his own behalf. After the defendant testified
on direct examination and cross-examination, his attorney called a
doctor to the witness stand. The doctor stated that he was a
psychiatrist, had practiced for 30 years, had treated thousands of
patients with illnesses like the defendant's, and had testified as an
expert in hundreds of criminal homicide trials. He testified, “After
listening to the defendant's testimony, I am of the opinion that the
defendant did not have malice aforethought as our law defines it on the
day of the victim's death.” On cross-examination, the doctor admitted
that he had never spoken to or seen the defendant before, and that his
opinion was based entirely on his observations of the defendant's
testimony.

Which of the following would be the prosecuting attorney's most
effective argument in support of a motion to exclude the doctor's
statement?

(A) The doctor's testimony embraces the ultimate issue.

(B) The doctor's opinions were based entirely upon courtroom

observations.

(C) The doctor had insufficient opportunity to examine the defendant.

(D) Whether the defendant had “malice aforethought” is a question to

be decided by the jury.

77. At the trial of her negligence action against the defendant, the plaintiff
exhibited her leg to the jury and testified that following the accident,
her leg was so badly mangled that she believed that she was going to
die. The plaintiff's attorney then called a witness, who testified that he
arrived at the scene of the accident moments after it occurred and found
the plaintiff lying in the roadway in a pool of blood. The witness stated
that he heard the plaintiff scream, “Oh, God, I had the green light in my
favor and now I'm dying!” The defendant's attorney made timely
objection to the witness's testimony.

Which of the following is the best reason for concluding that the
plaintiff's statement was NOT a dying declaration?

(A) The plaintiff's statement did not identify the person who she

believed to be responsible for her death.

(B) The plaintiff was in court when the witness testified to her

639

statement.

(C) The proceeding was a civil one.

(D) The plaintiff was not dying at the time her statement was made.

78. The plaintiff retained the defendant, an attorney, to represent him in
connection with a boundary dispute between the plaintiff and his
neighbor. Subsequently, the plaintiff sued the defendant for
malpractice, alleging that the defendant negligently failed to institute an
action to quiet title before such action was barred by the statute of
limitations. At the trial, the defendant testified that he advised the
plaintiff to commence an action to quiet title, but that the plaintiff
instructed the defendant not to do so, stating that he feared that because
of the litigation, his neighbor might find out that the plaintiff had once
been convicted of a felony. The plaintiff objected on the ground that his
communication with the defendant was confidential. In a jurisdiction
that recognizes the common law attorney-client privilege, the plaintiff's
objection should be

(A) sustained, because the plaintiff's statement was related to the

reason for his consultation with the defendant.

(B) sustained, because the plaintiff's statement was necessary to his

consultation with the defendant.

(C) overruled, because the defendant's testimony is relevant to the issue

of the defendant's negligence.

(D) overruled, because an adversary proceeding between attorney and
client terminates the confidential relationship between them.

79. The defendant, a 16-year-old child, was involved in an accident while
driving a friend's car. At the request of the plaintiff, who was injured in
the accident, a court designated the defendant's father as the defendant's
legal guardian for the purpose of defending the plaintiff's lawsuit
against the defendant. The plaintiff then sued the defendant, joining her
father as a defendant as required by state law. The defendant and her
father consulted an attorney about the lawsuit. The father was present
when the defendant told the attorney that she had been driving over the
speed limit at the time of the accident. The attorney refused to
represent the defendant, and her father thereafter retained another
attorney. At the trial of the plaintiff's action against the defendant and
her father, the attorney was called as a witness on the plaintiff's direct
case. When the plaintiff's attorney attempted to question him regarding

640

the conversation that he had with the defendant, the defendant's attorney
objected on the ground that the conversation was privileged. In a
jurisdiction that recognizes the common law attorney-client privilege,
should the objection to the attorney's testimony be sustained?

(A) Yes, because the father's designation as the defendant's legal
guardian made his presence at the consultation necessary.

(B) Yes, because all communications made by a client to an attorney

while seeking advice are privileged.

(C) No, because the defendant and the father are joint defendants.

(D) No, because the attorney never agreed to represent the defendant

and the father.

80. Section 481 of the City Code of Municipal Ordinances provides in
part, “In any municipal parking lot operated by the City, it shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to park a vehicle more than 17 feet in
length in a space marked ‘Compact Car Only.”’ At the defendant's trial
on a charge of violating that section, the public prosecutor rested after
proving that the defendant's car was more than 17 feet in length and that
it had been parked in a municipal parking lot operated by the city in a
space marked “Compact Car Only.” Without offering any evidence, the
defendant moved to dismiss on the ground that the public prosecutor
had failed to prove the contents of Section 481 of the City Code of
Municipal Ordinances. In response to the defendant's motion, the
public prosecutor asked the court to take judicial notice of that section.
The jurisdiction permits a court to take judicial notice of municipal
ordinances. The defendant's motion to dismiss should be

(A) granted, because the jurisdiction permits a court to take judicial

notice of municipal ordinances.

(B) granted, because the alleged violation of Section 481 of the Code
of Municipal Ordinances is an ultimate issue to be determined by
the trier of fact.

(C) granted, because the court qualifies as an expert on the contents of

the City Code of Municipal Ordinances.

(D) denied, because the contents of local law need not be proven in a

criminal prosecution.

81. The State Police Commissioner was subpoenaed to appear before a
state grand jury investigating corruption in state law enforcement

641

agencies. After being sworn, the commissioner refused to answer any
questions, asserting his privilege against self-incrimination under the
Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. After the state
prosecutor granted him use immunity, however, the commissioner
testified that for years he had been aware that his assistant, the
defendant, and certain other members of his department were receiving
bribes from members of nationwide organized crime syndicates. The
defendant was subsequently charged in a state court with receiving
bribes. At the defendant's trial, the commissioner was called as a
witness for the defense. On direct examination, the commissioner
testified that he had never heard of the defendant or any other member
of his department engaging in corrupt acts.

On cross-examination, the prosecuting attorney asked the
commissioner, “Didn't you testify at a grand jury proceeding that you
had been aware for years that the defendant had been taking bribes?”
The commissioner refused to answer on the ground that he had
received immunity before testifying at the grand jury proceeding.
Should the court compel the commissioner to answer the question?

(A) Yes, but the answer is admissible only for the purpose of

impeaching the commissioner's credibility.

(B) Yes, but the answer is admissible only as substantive evidence

against the defendant.

(C) Yes, and the answer is admissible for the purpose of impeaching

the commissioner's credibility and as substantive evidence against
the defendant.

(D) No.

82. While crossing a street in the city, the plaintiff was struck by a

northbound hit-and-run motorist and severely injured. In a subsequent
negligence action against the city, the plaintiff asserted that there was a
dangerous curve on the street just south of the place where the accident
occurred, and that the city was negligent in failing to post signs
warning pedestrians and motorists of the danger. During trial, the court
issued a special instruction to the jury regarding the dangers of
negative evidence.

As part of its defense, the city called the city traffic commissioner as a
witness. The witness testified that she had been the city traffic

642

commissioner for the past 20 years and that the street south of the
accident location was substantially unchanged during the period of the
witness's employment. The witness stated that because of her official
position, all reported traffic accidents in the city were brought to her
attention whether or not they resulted in lawsuits. She stated further
that although the street was a busy thoroughfare, she had never heard
of an accident on the street prior to the plaintiff's injury.

Upon proper motion by the plaintiff's attorney, the testimony of the
witness should be

(A) admitted, because the street south of the accident location was
substantially unchanged during the period of the witness's
employment.

(B) admitted, because the court issued a special instruction to the jury

regarding the dangers of negative evidence.

(C) excluded, because it is possible that accidents occurred that were

not reported.

(D) excluded, because of the inherent unreliability of negative

evidence.

83. In a negligence action against a hotel, the plaintiff asserted that while

she was a guest at the hotel, she slipped on wet pigeon droppings in an
alley located next to the hotel, sustaining injury. In defense, the hotel
denied that it was negligent and denied ownership and control of the
alley in which the accident occurred. At the trial, the plaintiff called a
hotel maintenance employee as a witness. The witness testified that
although employees of the hotel had never before cleaned pigeon
droppings from the alley, they began doing so after the plaintiff
commenced her lawsuit against the hotel. If the hotel objects to the
testimony of the witness, the testimony should be

(A) admitted.

(B) excluded, because subsequent cleaning of pigeon droppings may

have been nothing more than a response to the litigation.

(C) excluded, because of a policy that encourages the taking of

remedial measures following an accident.

(D) excluded, because the hotel denied that it was negligent.

84. At the trial of a personal injury action, a doctor testified that she

643

examined the plaintiff on the day of the trial, and that at that time, the
plaintiff told her that she felt pain in her knee. On cross-examination,
the defendant's attorney asked the doctor whether she had ever met the
plaintiff before the day of the trial. The doctor responded that she had
not, and that her sole purpose in examining the plaintiff was to prepare
for testifying at the trial. The defendant's attorney then moved to strike
that portion of the doctor's testimony that referred to the plaintiff's
complaint of pain. In a jurisdiction that applies the common-law rule
regarding confidential communications between patient and physician,
should the defendant's motion be granted?

(A) Yes, because the examination was solely for the purpose of

litigation.

(B) Yes, because the probative value of the statement is outweighed by

the possibility of prejudice.

(C) Yes, because statements made to a physician are privileged.

(D) No, because the statement described what the plaintiff was feeling

at the time.

85. At the trial of the defendant on a charge of criminal battery, the

prosecutor called the victim as a witness. The victim testified that he
had argued with the defendant in a bar shortly before he was struck in
the head from behind. He said that he did not see who struck him, but
that a moment before the blow, he heard a voice that he did not
recognize shout, “Watch out for [the defendant]!”

If the defendant's attorney objects to the victim's statement about what
he heard, that statement should be

(A) excluded, because the victim could not identify the person who

shouted.

(B) excluded, because the victim's testimony is self-serving.

(C) admitted.

(D) excluded, because there was no proof that the person shouting had

personal knowledge of the assailant's identity.

86. Procedural delays caused five years to pass before the plaintiff's

personal injury claim against the defendant was ready for trial. At the
trial, the plaintiff's attorney called the witness, an eyewitness to the
accident. The witness testified that before coming to court, she had

644

refreshed her recollection by looking at written notes of her interview
with the plaintiff's attorney that took place the week after the accident.
On proper motion by the defendant's attorney, the court

(A) should strike the witness's testimony, unless it is shown that the

notes themselves are unavailable.

(B) may direct that the notes be brought into court for inspection by the

defendant's attorney.

(C) may not properly direct that the notes be brought into court because

they have not been offered into evidence.

(D) should admit the notes into evidence as an admission of a party.

87. During the presentation of the plaintiff's direct case in a personal injury

action, the plaintiff's attorney called a doctor to the stand for the
purpose of establishing that the plaintiff had sustained an injury to one
of her glands.

When the plaintiff's attorney began to question the doctor about her
qualifications, the defendant's attorney conceded on the record and in
the presence of the jury that the doctor was an expert on injuries of the
glands and objected to any further questions regarding the
qualifications of the doctor. The court was satisfied that the doctor
qualified as an expert on glands. Should the plaintiff's attorney be
permitted to continue questioning the doctor regarding her
qualifications?

(A) No, because the qualifications of the doctor are no longer in issue.

(B) No, because the court is satisfied that the doctor is qualified as an

expert on diseases and injuries of the glands.

(C) Yes, because the court must determine for itself whether a witness

qualifies as an expert and cannot allow the matter to be determined
by stipulation of the parties.

(D) Yes, because the jury may consider an expert's qualifications in

determining his or her credibility.

88. The plaintiff was a passenger in a car driven by the defendant when the
car struck a pole. The plaintiff subsequently asserted a claim against
the defendant, alleging that injuries that resulted from the defendant's
negligent driving caused the plaintiff to be hospitalized for more than a
month. At trial, on the presentation of the plaintiff's direct case, the

645

plaintiff testified that immediately after the accident, while the
defendant was extremely nervous and upset, the defendant said, “Don't
worry, I've got plenty of insurance.”

Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, that portion of the
plaintiff's testimony should be

(A) excluded, because it is not relevant to a material issue.

(B) excluded, because it relates to a compromise offer.

(C) admitted as evidence of an admission of a party.

(D) admitted as evidence of an excited utterance.

89. At the defendant's trial on charges of criminal assault and battery, the
witness was called by the prosecutor. The witness testified that while
he was walking through a parking lot at night, the defendant attacked
and beat him. The witness stated further that although there were no
artificial lights of any kind in the vicinity of the parking lot, he was
able to see the defendant clearly in the light of the full moon. After
direct examination of the witness by the prosecutor, the defendant's
attorney waived cross-examination, and the witness left the courtroom.

The defendant's attorney subsequently called an expert witness to
testify that there was no moon at all on the night of the alleged crime.
The prosecutor conceded the expert's qualifications.

Upon timely objection by the prosecutor, the expert's testimony should
be

(A) admitted to show that the witness's testimony is not worthy of

belief.

(B) admitted, because it is part of the res gestae.

(C) excluded, because the witness was not given an opportunity to
explain his testimony in view of the additional evidence.

(D) excluded as extrinsic evidence of a collateral matter.

90. The defendant was arrested after she used a credit card bearing the
name “Timothy Nolan” to pay for a purchase. The defendant was
subsequently charged with fraudulent use of a credit card. At her trial,
a police officer testified that when she arrested the defendant, she
found her to be in possession of 5 credit cards bearing the name

646

“Timothy Nolan” and 36 other credit cards bearing a total of 36
different names. In addition, the officer stated that the defendant's
wallet contained driver's licenses to match each of the various names
on the credit cards.

If the defendant's attorney moves to exclude evidence that the
defendant possessed credit cards or driver's licenses other than that
which she was charged with fraudulently using, which of the following
would be the prosecutor's most effective argument in opposition to that
motion?

(A) The number of credit cards and driver's licenses in the defendant's

possession tends to establish a criminal plan.

(B) The number of credit cards in the defendant's possession makes it

likely that she had stolen them.

(C) The defendant should be required to explain why she possessed so

many credit cards belonging to other people.

(D) The defendant's possession of 41 credit cards bearing names other

than her own is an admission by conduct.

91. The plaintiff brought a negligence action against the defendant for

damages resulting from personal injuries sustained in an automobile
accident. Prior to trial, the parties and their attorneys attended a
settlement conference in the judge's chambers. During the course of the
settlement conference, the judge asked the defendant how fast she was
going at the time of the accident, to which the defendant replied, “I
really don't know, Your Honor.” The defendant was not under oath.

At the trial, the defendant testified on her own behalf. In response to a
question by her attorney, the defendant said, “When the accident
occurred, I was definitely not exceeding the speed limit.” On cross-
examination, the plaintiff's attorney asked the defendant, “Did you ever
say that you didn't know how fast you were going at the time of the
accident?” The defendant's attorney objected to the question.

The objection of the defendant's attorney should be

(A) sustained, because a proper foundation was not laid.

(B) sustained, because the defendant was not under oath at the

settlement conference.

647

(C) overruled, because the statement that the defendant made at the

settlement conference tends to establish that the defendant is not
worthy of belief.

(D) sustained, because the plaintiff's attorney failed to confront the

defendant prior to asking her about the statement.

92. The defendant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol
while operating a car that he borrowed from a friend earlier that day.
After the arrest, the police conducted an inventory search of the vehicle
and found a container of marijuana in the trunk. As a result, the
defendant was charged with violating a state law that made it a crime
to knowingly possess marijuana. Testifying on his own behalf at the
trial, the defendant stated that he was not aware there was marijuana in
the trunk. On cross-examination, after properly marking it for
identification, the prosecutor showed the defendant a letter that had
been taken from his coat pocket following his arrest, and he asked
whether he recognized it. When the defendant said that it was a note
from his wife, the prosecutor showed it to the defendant's attorney and
offered it in evidence. Among other things, the note said, “We sure got
high on that stuff we smoked last night.”

The jurisdiction recognizes the common law spousal privilege. If the
defendant's attorney objects to admission of the letter, his objection
should be

(A) sustained, because the letter is hearsay not within any exception to

the hearsay rule.

(B) sustained, because the letter is not relevant to a material issue.

(C) sustained, because the jurisdiction recognizes the common law

spousal privilege.

(D) overruled, because the letter is a declaration against the penal

interest of the defendant's wife.

93. At the trial of an action for breach of contract brought by the plaintiff
against the defendant, the plaintiff's attorney called the plaintiff as a
witness on her own behalf. The plaintiff was an expert in dog behavior.
On direct examination, the plaintiff's attorney asked, “Do you own a
German shepherd with a white forepaw?” The plaintiff said that she
did. No other questions were asked on direct examination. On cross-
examination, the defendant's attorney asked the plaintiff, “Your dog is

648

generally known to be gentle, isn't that correct?”

If the plaintiff's attorney objects to the question, the objection should
be

(A) sustained, because the question went beyond the scope of cross-

examination.

(B) sustained, because the question is leading.

(C) overruled, because the plaintiff is a hostile witness.

(D) overruled, because the plaintiff is an expert in dog behavior.

94. Which of the following is NOT self-authenticating?

(A) A will with the attestation of witnesses affixed to it.

(B) A newspaper.

(C) A directory of public service telephone numbers issued by the state

civil services administration.

(D) A copy of a divorce decree prepared by the attorney for one of the
divorced spouses and certified correct by the clerk of the court.

95. The plaintiff was riding a motorcycle manufactured by the defendant
when he collided with an automobile, sustaining serious personal
injuries. Following the accident, examination of the motorcycle
revealed that its fork was severely bent. The plaintiff claimed that the
fork bent when he drove the motorcycle over a bump in the road, and
that the bending of the fork caused him to lose control and strike the
automobile. The plaintiff asserted a personal injury claim against the
defendant on the ground that the motorcycle was equipped with a fork
that was not strong enough to withstand the pressures of normal
operation and was therefore defective in design. The defendant denied
that the motorcycle was defective and claimed that the accident
resulted from the plaintiff's negligent operation of the motorcycle and
that the fork did not bend until the motorcycle collided with the
automobile. During trial, the judge gave the jury a special instruction
regarding the uncertainty of negative evidence.

The defendant called the witness, who was employed by the defendant
as vice president in charge of safety. The witness was the person to
whom all complaints of product failure would be reported. The
witness testified that he had held that position for six years, that in that

649

time the company had sold more than 10,000 motorcycles identical to
the one ridden by the plaintiff, and that the witness had never heard
about a fork bending in normal operation. If the plaintiff's attorney
objects, the witness's testimony should be

(A) admitted, because the judge gave the jury a special instruction

regarding the uncertainty of negative evidence.

(B) admitted, because the witness was the person to whom all

complaints of product failure would be reported.

(C) excluded, because it is possible that accidents occurred that were

never reported to the company.

(D) excluded, because negative evidence is inherently unreliable.

96. While visiting the United States from a Central American republic, the
plaintiff purchased a sweater at a department store and paid for it at the
appropriate cash register. In ringing up the sale, however, the store
employee neglected to remove a security tag that was still affixed to
the sweater to prevent theft. As a result, the tag caused an electronic
security alarm to ring as the plaintiff attempted to exit the store with the
purchased merchandise. Security guards immediately accosted her and
placed her under citizen's arrest. Eventually, the police were called,
and a more thorough investigation was instituted. As a result, it was
determined that the plaintiff had paid for the merchandise. Authorities
of the department store apologized to the plaintiff and permitted her to
leave.

Subsequently, a magazine erroneously reported that the plaintiff had
been arrested, charged with shoplifting at the department store, and
taken into police custody. Because the plaintiff was a candidate for
political office in the Central American republic, newspapers in that
country reprinted the magazine article. The plaintiff lost the election,
and she instituted an action against the magazine for damages resulting
from defamation.

On cross-examination, the plaintiff's attorney asked a witness whether
he and the plaintiff were political rivals, and the witness answered
that they were not. The plaintiff's attorney subsequently offered the
testimony of a republic official, who stated that, in a recent election,
the witness ran against the plaintiff for political office, and that the
witness won the election by engaging in a campaign of false

650

accusations against the plaintiff. Upon appropriate motion of the
magazine's attorney, the testimony of the official should be

(A) admitted, since it tends to attack the witness's credibility by

showing bias.

(B) admitted, since the magazine opened the door by bringing the

plaintiff's reputation into question.

(C) admitted, since it is evidence of an admission.

(D) excluded.

97. At the trial of a personal injury action, the plaintiff claimed that he had
sustained a shattered elbow when he was knocked from his bicycle by
the defendant's car. A doctor testified for the plaintiff, stating that she
examined him for the first time on the morning of the trial and that her
examination was made specifically in preparation for her testimony.

The doctor then stated that during the course of the examination, the
plaintiff also said, “When I was struck by the car, my right elbow
struck the ground so hard that I heard a sound like a gunshot.” If the
defendant objects to this testimony, the court should

(A) sustain the objection, since the statement is hearsay.

(B) sustain the objection, since the examination was not performed for

the purpose of diagnosis or treatment.

(C) overrule the objection, since the statement was part of a pertinent

medical history.

(D) overrule the objection, since the statement described a former

sense impression.

98. After a minor impact caused an automobile to explode, killing all its
occupants, the company that manufactured the car was charged with
criminal negligence and prosecuted by the state. At the trial, an
automobile safety design expert testified under oath on behalf of the
prosecution. He stated that in his opinion the car was poorly designed,
and that because of the construction of its engine, an explosion was
inevitable if the front end of the car collided with any object at an
impact speed in excess of 35 miles per hour.

Subsequently, the plaintiff was injured when the car that he was
driving exploded after striking another vehicle in the rear. The plaintiff

651

brought an action in a neighboring state against the company for
personal injuries.

Pursuant to a subpoena that had been served on the company, the
plaintiff's attorney called upon the company to produce records of tests
that it had performed on the car before marketing it. The company's
attorney objected, on the ground that the company had turned the test
records over to its attorney in preparation for trial. Should the trial
court require production of the records?

(A) No, since they are privileged as an attorney's work product.

(B) No, since they are privileged as materials prepared for litigation.

(C) No, since they are privileged as a confidential communication to an

attorney.

(D) Yes, since they are relevant to the issues and not protected by

privilege.

99. The plaintiff was injured when she fell down a flight of steps at a
bartending school. She subsequently sued the school for damages,
asserting that the accident resulted from the school's negligence in
allowing parts of the stairway to become loose.

On the defendant's case, the school's attorney called a doctor to the
stand. After establishing that she was an expert in the field of spinal
injuries, the school's attorney asked her whether, in her opinion, it was
possible for a person to sustain a herniation of the spine in a fall down
a flight of steps. The doctor stated that in her opinion it was not
possible to sustain such an injury in that way. On cross-examination,
the plaintiff's attorney asked the doctor whether she had ever examined
or treated the plaintiff. The doctor answered, “I have never even met
the plaintiff.” The plaintiff's attorney then moved to strike the
testimony that the doctor had given on direct examination. The motion
should be

(A) granted, since the doctor's opinion is not based on matters within

her personal knowledge.

(B) granted, since the doctor's opinion is based on matters not in

evidence.

(C) denied, since the doctor was testifying in response to a hypothetical

question.

652

(D) denied, since an expert's testimony may be based on observations

made in the courtroom.

100. The defendant was charged with murdering the victim, a prominent

union leader, by throwing him off the roof of an office building. At the
defendant's trial, the prosecution offered the testimony of a police
officer who arrived at the scene moments after the victim's death.

The prosecuting attorney asked the officer whether he interviewed any
of the people in the crowd. The officer replied that he interviewed an
eyewitness, but that he no longer remembered her name or what she
told him. He then said that he had accurately recorded the contents of
the eyewitness's statement in his notebook as she was making it and
that he had brought the notebook to court with him. The prosecuting
attorney asked the officer to read the contents of the statement to the
jury. If the defendant's attorney objected, the court should

(A) sustain the objection, since the statement of the eyewitness is

hearsay, not within any exception to the hearsay rule.

(B) overrule the objection, since the statement is a past recollection

recorded.

(C) overrule the objection, since the statement is part of the res gestae.

(D) overrule the objection, since the officer's notebook is a business

record.

101. The plaintiff sued a newspaper publisher for stating that the plaintiff
had misused church funds. The publisher's attorney offered the
testimony of an editor employed by the publisher. The editor testified
that it was his job to note retraction demands in an office file, and that
as a matter of company policy and practice, all such demands were
promptly reported to him for that purpose and promptly noted by him.
He said that on the morning of the trial he had searched the file for
notes of any retraction demand made by the plaintiff and found none. If
the publisher's attorney offers the file in evidence, the plaintiff's
objection should be

(A) sustained, since the absence of a notation cannot be used as

evidence that an event did not occur.

(B) sustained, since the file is self-serving.

(C) overruled, since the file itself is admissible as a business record.

653

(D) overruled, since the editor used the file to refresh his recollection.

102. Following his arrest on New Year's Eve, the defendant was charged
with reckless driving and driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor. The arresting officer testified at the defendant's
trial on those charges.

The officer stated that she chased the defendant in her patrol car,
apprehended him, and ordered him out of his car. The prosecutor
asked, “Did you notice anything in particular about his breath at that
time?” The officer answered, “Yes, it smelled like alcohol.” The
defendant's attorney objected to the question and moved to strike the
answer. The motion should be

(A) granted, because the question was leading.

(B) granted, since the officer's answer was a conclusion.

(C) granted, since the officer's statement went to an ultimate issue in the

case.

(D) denied.

103. At trial for breach of contract, the defendant offered the testimony of a

store manager who stated that blank DVDs from the plaintiff always
came in plastic cases. In response, the plaintiff offered the testimony of
a witness, who stated that he was the plaintiff's shipping manager and
in charge of filling orders for blank DVDs received by the plaintiff.
Over objection by the defendant's attorney, the witness stated that in
the past four months the plaintiff had shipped DVDs packaged in paper
boxes to 20 other customers and that none had rejected them. He also
testified that the 20 customers were of the same general size and class
as the defendant. The objection should have been

(A) overruled, since evidence of previous dealings is usually

admissible for the purpose of establishing the parties' state of mind
at the time the contract was formed.

(B) overruled, since the defendant opened the door by offering the

testimony of the store manager.

(C) overruled, because the 20 customers to which the witness referred

were of the same general size and class as the defendant.

(D) sustained, since such transactions are not relevant to the agreement

between the plaintiff and the defendant.

654

104. After his vehicle collided with the plaintiff's on March 1, the defendant
retained an attorney to represent him in any possible litigation that
might develop. The attorney hired a private investigator to interview
the plaintiff regarding the facts of the accident. On March 5, the
investigator followed he plaintiff into a bar, sat next to him, and
engaged him in conversation. During the conversation, the plaintiff
described the accident that he had with the defendant, and said, “Just
between you and me, I drank a six-pack of beer just before the accident
happened. It's a good thing nobody smelled my breath.” Eventually the
plaintiff commenced a personal injury action against the defendant. At
the trial of the action, the plaintiff testified on direct examination that
he had been driving at a slow rate of speed when the defendant's
vehicle suddenly pulled out of a driveway into his path. During cross-
examination, the plaintiff stated that he had not been drinking prior to
the accident.

During presentation of the defendant's case, the defendant's attorney
called the investigator to the stand. Over objection by the plaintiff's
attorney, the investigator described the conversation that he had with
the plaintiff in the bar on March 5 and stated that the plaintiff told him
that he had consumed a six-pack of beer just prior to the accident. The
investigator's testimony was

(A) admissible for impeachment purposes only.

(B) admissible as substantive evidence only.

(C) admissible for impeachment purposes and as substantive evidence.

(D) inadmissible.

105. In an action by the seller against the buyer for breach of contract, the

seller's manager testified that after the buyer refused to accept delivery
of merchandise as agreed, he personally arranged for the resale of the
goods at a price that was $3,000 less than that which the buyer had
agreed to pay.

On cross-examination, the buyer's attorney asked, “Didn't you once
plead guilty to violating Penal Code section 22.9(a)?” The manager
denied ever pleading guilty to the code section. The buyer's attorney
subsequently offered a transcript of the manager's conviction for
violating the code section. If only one of the following facts or
inferences were true, which would most effectively support the

655

seller's objection to its admission into evidence?

(A) The manager's violation of the code section is unrelated to his

duties as an employee of the seller.

(B) The manager's conviction was subsequently reversed on the ground
that the evidence used against him was obtained in violation of the
Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(C) The crime of which the manager was convicted was a

misdemeanor.

(D) The crime of which the manager was convicted was a malum

prohibitum felony.

106. The plaintiff was crossing the street on foot when she was struck by a
delivery van driven by an employee of the defendant while the
employee was in the process of making a delivery. Following the
accident, the employee was charged with reckless driving and pleaded
not guilty. At the trial on the charge of reckless driving, the employee
testified in his own defense. He stated that at the time of the accident,
he had taken his eyes off the road to look for the address of the place to
which he had to make his delivery and that as a result, he didn't see the
plaintiff crossing the street.

The plaintiff subsequently sued the defendant under the theory of
respondeat superior. The plaintiff proved that the employee was in
the defendant's employ until the employee died of natural causes
unrelated to the accident. The plaintiff then offered the transcript of the
employee's testimony at the reckless driving trial.

The court refused to admit the transcript of the employee's testimony.
Upon presentation of the defendant's case, the defendant's attorney
offered into evidence a properly certified transcript of a court record
indicating that the employee had been acquitted after trial on the
charge of reckless driving. Upon objection by the plaintiff's attorney,
the transcript should be

(A) admitted, as an official record.

(B) admitted, to raise a conclusive presumption that the employee was

not driving recklessly at the time of the accident.

(C) excluded, since the employee is not available for cross-

examination regarding his guilt or innocence of the charge of

656

reckless driving.

(D) excluded, since it is not relevant to the issues on trial.

107. A young couple was driving home from a party when they collided

with the plaintiff's car. The police arrived at the scene and arrested the
driver for driving while intoxicated. He was later tried and acquitted.
Several months after the trial, the plaintiff instituted an action against
the driver for personal injuries resulting from the accident.

The couple married after the criminal trial but divorced before the
civil trial. If the plaintiff's attorney asks the driver's ex-wife to state
how much alcohol she had observed the driver consume at the party,
the driver's objection should be

(A) sustained, since the ex-wife's testimony would involve a

confidential marital communication.

(B) sustained, under the spousal privilege.

(C) sustained, since a rule of policy prevents the testimony of a former

spouse from being used against a party.

(D) overruled.

108. The defendant, a police officer who had recently joined the police

department, was charged with the murder of his wife. At the trial, the
prosecution claimed that while on a visit to the country, the defendant's
wife was walking across a meadow when the defendant shot her from
three-quarters of a mile away with a rifle equipped with a telescopic
sight. The defendant admitted firing the rifle but maintained that his
wife's death was an accident. On the presentation of the defendant's
case, his attorney called a firearms expert, who testified that the rifle
was not reliably accurate at any distance in excess of a half-mile.

In rebuttal, the prosecutor called a police officer who joined the
police force at the same time as the defendant. The officer testified that
he and the defendant had attended firearms classes together at the
police academy, and that the defendant had been with him in a firearms
class when their instructor said that the rifle was capable of
remarkable accuracy at distances of up to two miles if fired by a good
marksman. On objection by the defendant's attorney, the testimony of
the officer should be

(A) admitted, only for the purpose of proving that the defendant

657

believed the rifle to be accurate at the distance involved.

(B) admitted, only for the purpose of proving that the rifle was accurate

at the distance involved.

(C) admitted for the purpose of proving that the defendant believed the
rifle to be accurate at the distance involved, and for the purpose of
proving that it was accurate at that distance.

(D) excluded as hearsay.

109. The defendant was arrested for murder. While he was being held in the

county jail, he shared a cell with the witness, who was being held on
misdemeanor vandalism charges. During the defendant's trial, the
prosecutor called the witness to the stand to authenticate the
defendant's voice on an audio clip posted to the Internet the day of the
murder. After the prosecutor laid the proper foundation, the witness
testified that although he never knew the defendant before his arrest, he
spoke with the defendant when they were sharing the cell together and
the voice on the audio file was the defendant's. The defendant's
attorney objected, arguing the witness could not properly authenticate
the defendant's voice.

The court should

(A) sustain the objection, because the witness's testimony is

inadmissible hearsay.

(B) sustain the objection, because the witness had never heard the

defendant's voice until after his felony arrest.

(C) overrule the objection, because the witness spoke with the

defendant while they shared the cell.

(D) overrule the objection, because the witness can be qualified as a

special expert in a criminal trial.

110. At trial, a witness testified that on the day of the incident, she looked
up the defendant's number in the phone book and dialed it, and that a
male voice answered, “[Defendant] speaking.” The witness stated
further that she then asked, “Are you the animal that exposed his
privates to my daughter?” to which the voice replied, “Yes, I couldn't
help myself.”

The witness testified further that she knew it was the defendant on the

658

phone because she had once chatted with him outside the grocery store
and recognized his “really deep” voice. If the defendant moves to
strike this testimony, the motion should be

(A) granted, since one conversation is not sufficient to justify testimony

as to voice identification.

(B) granted, since expert testimony is required for the identification of

a voice.

(C) denied, since a voice may be identified by a layperson who

testifies that he or she recognized it because he or she had heard it
before under circumstances connecting it with the alleged speaker.

(D) denied, because the witness testified to a distinctive characteristic
about the defendant's voice that permitted her to recognize it.

111. In a personal injury action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the

plaintiff claimed that the accident occurred because the defendant, who
was operating a blue sedan, was driving at an excessive rate of speed.
At the trial, the plaintiff's attorney called a witness who testified that
she was walking on the street at the time the accident occurred and
that, although she did not see the vehicles before the collision, she
knew that the defendant's vehicle was traveling at a high rate of speed
because of the screeching sound made by his tires immediately before
the impact. If the defendant's attorney objects to this testimony, the
court should

(A) permit the witness to testify, but should give the jury a cautionary

instruction regarding lay opinions.

(B) permit the witness to testify, because a layperson is competent to
form an opinion regarding the speed of a moving automobile.

(C) exclude the witness's testimony, because a layperson is not

competent to form an opinion as to the speed of a moving
automobile.

(D) exclude the witness's testimony, because the witness did not have
an adequate opportunity to form an opinion regarding the speed of
the defendant's automobile.

112. After the crash of an airplane, an action for wrongful death was

brought by the husband of a passenger killed in the crash. During the
trial, the plaintiff called an employee of the State Aviation Agency that
investigated the circumstances surrounding the crash.

659

The witness read aloud from an investigation report that quoted an
unidentified witness to the crash as stating that she heard an explosion
several seconds before she saw the plane burst into flames. He
testified that the report from which he was reading was one kept in the
regular course of business by the State Aviation Agency, that the entry
from which he was reading had been made by another investigator
who worked for the Agency, that the investigator who made the entry
was sworn to investigate airplane crashes and to keep honest and
accurate records of the results of those investigations, and that the
investigator who made the entry was now dead. Upon appropriate
objection, the evidence should be ruled

(A) admissible as a business record.

(B) admissible as an official written statement.

(C) admissible as past recollection recorded.

(D) inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.

113. The plaintiff was injured when the ladder on which she was standing

collapsed without warning. Immediately following the accident, the
plaintiff was taken to the hospital, where she remained for
approximately six hours. The plaintiff later sued the manufacturer of
the ladder. At the trial, the plaintiff's attorney next offered a properly
authenticated hospital record. After examining the record, the
defendant's attorney, outside the presence of the jury, moved to exclude
a portion of the record that read: “History: Ladder collapsed. Patient
fell.” The motion to exclude that portion of the record should be

(A) granted, because it can be excluded without causing any physical

damage to the record.

(B) granted, because it has no bearing on the plaintiff's medical

condition.

(C) denied, because the history was taken for the purpose of diagnosis

or treatment.

(D) granted, since hospital personnel are not experts in determining the

causes of accidents.

114. The plaintiff sued the defendant for battery. At trial, the defendant

offered the testimony of the local parish priest, who stated that he had
known the defendant for years and that he and everyone else in the
community thought of him as a peaceable man who would never resort

660

to violence except in self-protection. The defendant offered the
testimony as circumstantial evidence to prove that he did not strike the
plaintiff without justification.

If the plaintiff's attorney objects to the testimony of the parish priest,
the testimony should be

(A) excluded, because it is being offered as circumstantial evidence to

prove that the defendant did not strike the plaintiff without
justification.

(B) admitted, because the priest testified that his own opinion of the
defendant coincided with what the community thought about him.

(C) admitted, because it states the reputation of the defendant.

(D) admitted, for the limited purpose of establishing the defendant's

state of mind at the time of the occurrence.

115. While walking down a stairway that led to the women's restroom at a
theater, the plaintiff fell and sustained serious injuries to her shoulder.
She sued the theater for damages, alleging that it had negligently
permitted the stairway to be littered with scraps of paper and that she
had slipped on one of them.

At trial, the theater manager testified that immediately following the
accident, a crowd formed around the fallen plaintiff, and he heard a
friend of his in the crowd shout, “She was taking the stairs three at a
time and she missed one!” He stated that the speaker was a good
friend of his, who offered to testify if need be. The judge should rule
this testimony

(A) admissible as an excited utterance.

(B) admissible, because the manager can identify the person who made

the statement.

(C) admissible, because the person who made the statement offered to

testify to it herself.

(D) inadmissible as hearsay.

116. The plaintiff was a commercial furniture-finisher. The defendant was a

manufacturer of commercial furniture-finishing supplies. In an action
by the plaintiff against the defendant for breach of contract, a dispute
arose as to the meaning of the term “unit of lacquer,” which appeared

661

in a contract between the parties. The witness, an officer of the
plaintiff, testified on her company's direct case.

The plaintiff's attorney asked the witness whether the plaintiff and the
defendant had ever done business in the past. In response, the witness
said, “Definitely. In fact, before coming to court today, I refreshed my
recollection by looking at company files. Then, based on my own
knowledge, I prepared a chart, which accurately indicates the dates of
the occasions we have done business together.” After the witness
testified to those dates, the plaintiff's attorney offered the chart that the
witness had prepared into evidence. Should the chart be admitted into
evidence over the objection of the defendant's attorney?

(A) Yes, as a summary of a business record.

(B) Yes, as an illustration of the witness's testimony.

(C) No, because it is not the best evidence of the contents of the

plaintiff's files.

(D) No, because a witness may not refresh his or her recollection by
reference to materials unless they are in court and marked for
identification.

117. The defendant pleaded not guilty to a charge of committing an armed

robbery of a bank. When the defendant appeared in court on the day of
the trial, his head was completely bald. Witnesses stated that the bank
was robbed by a man with bushy red hair.

The prosecuting attorney called a guard as a witness. The guard
testified that she was employed as a guard in the county house of
detention where the defendant had been in custody since the day of his
arrest. She stated that when she saw the defendant on the day of his
arrest he had bushy red hair. She stated further that, at the defendant's
request, she provided the defendant with shaving articles on the
morning of the trial and remained outside his cell, where she watched
while he shaved his head. If the defendant's attorney objects to this
testimony, the testimony should be

(A) excluded, as extrinsic evidence of a collateral matter.

(B) excluded, under the defendant's privilege against self-incrimination.

(C) admitted, to explain why the defendant no longer has bushy red hair.

662

(D) admitted, as evidence of an admission by conduct.

118. Soon after his election as labor union president, the defendant raised
his presidential salary from $135,000 to $160,000 per year. As a
result, he was subsequently charged with violating a state law making
it a felony for union officials to knowingly misappropriate union funds.
The defendant admitted granting himself the pay raise but claimed as a
defense that when he did so, he believed the union rules authorized
such action.

The defendant's attorney called the former president of the union. The
former president testified to a conversation that took place between
him and the defendant before the defendant ordered the pay raise. The
former president stated that when the defendant asked him whether the
union president was permitted to raise his own salary, the former
president told him that the president could do so whenever he deemed
it necessary. If the prosecuting attorney objects to the former
president's testimony on the ground that it is hearsay, the former
president's testimony should be

(A) admitted, as evidence of the defendant's state of mind.

(B) excluded, as hearsay, not within any exception.

(C) excluded, because the former president likely does not qualify as an

expert on the union's rules.

(D) admitted, because the out-of-court assertion was made by the

witness himself.

119. At the trial of her negligence action against the defendant, the plaintiff

exhibited her leg to the jury and testified that following the accident,
her leg was so badly mangled that she believed that she was going to
die. The plaintiff's attorney then called a witness, who testified that he
arrived at the scene of the accident moments after it occurred and
found the plaintiff lying in the roadway in a pool of blood. The witness
stated that he heard the plaintiff scream, “Oh, God, I had the green light
in my favor and now I'm dying!” The defendant's attorney made timely
objection to the witness's testimony.

The witness's testimony is

(A) admissible as evidence of an excited utterance.

(B) inadmissible as hearsay, not within any exception.

663

(C) admissible as evidence of a declaration of present state of mind.

(D) admissible as evidence of a declaration of past state of mind.

120. The defendant was charged in a state court with third degree arson on
the allegation that he set fire to his own house for the purpose of
collecting benefits under a fire insurance policy. At his trial, the
defendant called the witness as a witness in his favor. On direct
examination by the defendant's attorney, the witness testified that at the
time of the fire, he and the defendant were together at a baseball game
50 miles away from the defendant's home.

The prosecuting attorney then offered proof that the witness had been
arrested as an accessory to the burning of the defendant's house and
that the charge against him was still pending. If the defendant's attorney
objects to this evidence, the objection should be

(A) sustained, because evidence of unconvicted bad acts is
inadmissible to extrinsically impeach a witness.

(B) sustained, because the arrest of the witness is not material to the

charge against the defendant.

(C) overruled, because the pending charge against the witness is

evidence that the witness is a biased witness.

(D) overruled, because the arrest is evidence that the witness has a bad

reputation for honesty and truthfulness.

121. The plaintiff appeared as a chef on a televised cooking contest. After

the plaintiff was eliminated and left the room, the defendant, a judge on
the show, turned to another one of the judges and said, “That guy was
totally on drugs and his cooking tastes like it.” The plaintiff didn't
know about the defendant's statements until he watched the show on
television. Concerned that the defendant's statement could damage the
success of his new restaurant, the plaintiff sued the defendant for
defamation. At trial, the plaintiff testified as to what the defendant said
on the television show. The defendant's attorney objected.

The objection should be

(A) granted, because a recording of the show would be the best

evidence regarding what was said.

(B) granted, because the testimony is inadmissible hearsay.

664

(C) denied, because it is a declaration against interest.

(D) denied, because the plaintiff saw the television show where the

defendant made his statements.

122. At the trial of the defendant on a charge of criminal battery, the

prosecutor called a witness who testified that he was working as a
bartender at the time and place where the victim was attacked. In
answer to a question by the prosecutor, the witness said that he did not
remember whether he shouted anything immediately before the attack.
The prosecutor showed the defendant's attorney a written report of a
conversation between the witness and an investigator and had it
marked for identification. Then the prosecutor showed the report to the
witness and asked whether it refreshed his recollection. If the
defendant's attorney objects to this procedure, the objection should be

(A) sustained, unless the report has been admitted into evidence.

(B) sustained, because the report is inadmissible hearsay.

(C) overruled, because the witness testified that he did not remember

whether or not he shouted anything prior to the attack.

(D) overruled, but only if the prosecutor offers the report into evidence.

123. During the presentation of plaintiff's direct case in a personal injury
action, the plaintiff's attorney called a doctor to the stand for the
purpose of establishing that the plaintiff had sustained an injury to her
skull.

On direct examination, the doctor testified that after receiving a
positive result in a test known as a skullogram, she concluded that the
plaintiff had sustained an injury to her skull. On cross-examination, the
defendant's attorney showed the doctor a book and asked whether she
relied on it in forming her diagnosis. The doctor stated that she did
not, but she admitted that it was a well-respected work in the field.
The defendant's attorney then asked the doctor to read aloud a passage
from the book that stated that a positive result in a skullogram almost
always indicated that there was no injury to the patient's skull. If the
plaintiff's attorney objects, can that passage be read to the jury?

(A) Yes, for the purpose of impeachment only.

(B) Yes, as substantive evidence only.

(C) Yes, for the purpose of impeachment and as substantive evidence.

665

(D) No.

124. The plaintiff was a passenger in a car driven by the defendant when the
car struck a pole. The plaintiff subsequently asserted a claim against
the defendant, alleging that injuries that resulted from the defendant's
negligent driving caused the plaintiff to be hospitalized for more than a
month. At trial, on the presentation of the plaintiff's direct case, the
plaintiff testified that following his release from the hospital, the
defendant's insurance company paid the plaintiff's hospital bill of
$20,000. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, this portion of the
plaintiff's testimony should be

(A) excluded, because the payment of the plaintiff's hospital bill is an

offer of compromise.

(B) excluded.

(C) admitted, because reference to the fact that the defendant was

insured can be severed from the rest of the plaintiff's statement.

(D) admitted, as circumstantial evidence that the defendant regarded

himself to be at fault in causing the accident.

125. The plaintiff brought a negligence action against the defendant for

personal injuries that the plaintiff sustained when she was struck by the
defendant's car while she was a pedestrian. In defense, the defendant
asserted that he was not negligent and that the plaintiff was
contributorily negligent in that she was not in the area designated as a
crosswalk at the time of the accident. The plaintiff's attorney called the
witness as a witness on the plaintiff's behalf.

The witness testified that she held a valid driver's license, that she had
been driving an automobile for 40 years, that she had seen the
defendant's car just before it struck the plaintiff, and that, in her
opinion, it was moving at a speed in excess of the speed limit, 35
miles per hour. If the defendant's attorney objects to the witness's
testimony regarding the speed of the defendant's vehicle, which of the
following would be the most effective argument in support of that
objection?

(A) The witness did not qualify as an expert on the speed of a moving

automobile.

(B) The witness's statement of opinion concerned an ultimate fact in the

litigation.

666

(C) The witness did not have sufficient opportunity to form an opinion

regarding the speed of the defendant's vehicle.

(D) The speed of the defendant's vehicle was a fact, and therefore it

cannot be established by opinion evidence.

126. At the trial of an action brought by the plaintiff against the defendant

for breach of contract, a witness was called by the plaintiff's attorney.
The witness identified the signature on a document as the defendant's,
testifying that he knew the defendant's signature because he and the
defendant had once been partners and that he had seen the defendant's
signature many times during the course of their partnership.

The witness then testified to other matters, and on cross-examination,
the defendant's attorney asked the witness, “Didn't the partnership
between you and the defendant break up because the defendant
accused you of dishonesty?” If the plaintiff's attorney objects to that
question, the objection should be

(A) sustained, because the question seeks to elicit hearsay not within

any exception to the hearsay rule.

(B) overruled, because the question seeks to elicit an admission.

(C) overruled, because the question seeks to elicit evidence that is

admissible for purposes of extrinsic impeachment.

(D) overruled, because the question seeks to elicit evidence that would

tend to establish that the witness is a biased witness.

127. A federal officer had been informed that a person arriving from Europe
on a particular airline flight would be carrying cocaine in his baggage.
The officer went to the airport and stood at the arrival gate with a dog
that had been specially trained to recognize the scent of cocaine. When
the defendant, carrying his bag, walked by, the dog began barking and
scratching the floor in front of him with his right paw. The officer
stopped the defendant and searched his bag. In it, he found a small
brass statue with a false bottom. Upon removing the false bottom, the
officer found one ounce of cocaine. The defendant, who was arrested
and charged with the illegal importation of a controlled substance,
claimed he had purchased the statue as a souvenir and was unaware
that there was cocaine hidden it its base.

At the defendant's trial, the prosecution offered to prove that the

667

defendant had been convicted 15 years earlier of illegally importing
cocaine by hiding it in the base of a brass statue. If the defendant's
attorney objected, the court should rule that proof of the defendant's
prior conviction is

(A) admissible, as evidence of habit.

(B) admissible, because it is evidence of a distinctive method of

operation.

(C) inadmissible, because evidence of previous conduct by a defendant

may not be used against him or her.

(D) inadmissible, because the prior conviction occurred more than 10

years before the trial.

128. The plaintiff was riding a motorcycle manufactured by the defendant
when he collided with an automobile, sustaining serious personal
injuries. He claimed the fork on the motorcycle bent when he was
riding it.

The defendant's attorney attempted to offer a film into evidence. The
film showed a test being conducted on a motorcycle fork identical to
the one on the plaintiff's motorcycle. In the test, the fork was subjected
to the application of more than 15,000 pounds of pressure and did not
bend. However, while the plaintiff's accident took place on a hilly dirt
road, the test took place on a flat test track. If the plaintiff's attorney
objects, the film should be

(A) excluded, because it has not been properly authenticated by the

photographer who made the film.

(B) excluded, because it is not the best evidence of the test that was

performed.

(C) excluded, because the test conditions were not identical to the
conditions that the plaintiff claims existed at the time of the
accident.

(D) admitted.

129. The defendant was charged with murdering the victim, a prominent

union leader, by throwing him off the roof of an office building. At the
defendant's trial, the prosecution offered the testimony of a police
officer who arrived at the scene moments after the victim's death.

668

The prosecuting attorney asked the officer whether he knew the
defendant. The officer said that prior to the death of the victim, he had
arrested the defendant three times for aggravated assault, and that the
defendant had been convicted each time. The prosecutor offered
properly authenticated court records of the convictions. Upon timely
objection by the defendant's attorney, the court should admit into
evidence

(A) the officer's testimony only.

(B) the court records only.

(C) both the officer's testimony and the court records.

(D) neither the officer's testimony nor the court records.

130. The plaintiff sued a hedge fund, claiming the fund made certain trades
he did not think were prudent, resulting in a large financial loss. In
defense, the hedge fund pointed to a state law that limited damages for
trading losses based on a hedge fund trade unless a client protest was
made within 30 days of the trade.

The hedge fund's attorney offered the testimony of one of its managers,
who testified it was his job to note any client protests. He said any
protests were promptly reported to him and noted by him as a matter
of company policy. He said he had searched the relevant file for any
note regarding a protest made by the plaintiff and could not find one.
The hedge fund's attorney then offered the file in evidence. The
plaintiff objected.

The court should

(A) sustain the objection, because the evidence is inadmissible hearsay.

(B) sustain the objection, because the lack of a note does not prove the

plaintiff did not protest the trade.

(C) overrule the objection, because the file was kept by the manager as

a regularly conducted business activity.

(D) overrule the objection, because the file was used to refresh the

manager's recollection.

131. The plaintiff sued the defendant for damages after the defendant hit the
plaintiff with his car while the plaintiff was riding his bicycle. The
plaintiff called his first witness, who had been riding in the car with

669

the defendant, believing he would testify that the defendant was texting
when the accident occurred. However, during the first witness's
testimony, the first witness denied seeing the defendant texting and
said, “I've never claimed anything different!” The plaintiff now wants
to call a second witness. The second witness would testify that the first
witness told her about the accident and said that the defendant was
“texting the entire time and wasn't even looking at the road.”

Is the second witness's testimony admissible?

(A) Yes, to impeach the first witness and to prove the defendant was

texting.

(B) Yes, to impeach the first witness.

(C) No, because it is inadmissible hearsay.

(D) No, because the first witness was testifying for the plaintiff.

132. The defendant was on trial for murder. The defendant wants to testify
that after the murder a witness told her, “I saw the guy that did it.” The
defendant wants to use this statement to prove she did not commit the
murder because she is female. May the defendant do so?

(A) Yes, because it is relevant non-hearsay.

(B) Yes, because it is a declaration against interest.

(C) No, because it is hearsay.

(D) No, because the probative value is substantially outweighed by the

danger of unfair prejudice.

670

ANSWERS
____________________
EVIDENCE

671

ANSWERS TO 
EVIDENCE QUESTIONS

1. A Under both common law and the UCC, evidence of trade terminology is
admissible for the purpose of establishing the meaning of a particular
term in a contract between parties in the trade. Since the contract calls
for the sale of fish at wholesale, evidence of trade terminology used in
the wholesale fish industry is relevant to establish the meaning of the
term in question.

Ordinarily, a witness is not permitted to testify to his or her opinion.
A witness who qualifies as an expert in a particular field, however,
may be permitted to testify to an opinion regarding his or her field of
expertise.  Since  the  chef  is  not  offering  an  opinion  regarding  the
preparation of fried fish in fast food restaurants, he need not qualify
as  an  expert  in  that  particular  field.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is
incorrect  because  even  if  parties  have  not  specifically  agreed  to  be
bound  by  the  terminology  of  a  particular  industry,  that  terminology
may be relevant in determining the meaning of unexplained terms in a
contract so long as both parties are likely to have been aware of the
meaning  of  the  trade  terminology.  D  is  incorrect  because  an  expert
may offer an opinion regarding his or her field of expertise.

2.  C  Damages  in  a  defamation  action  are  supposed  to  compensate  the
plaintiff for an injury to her reputation. Since the injury would be less
severe  if  the  plaintiff's  reputation  was  not  a  good  one  to  begin  with,
evidence of the plaintiff's reputation in the republic is relevant to the
issue of damages and is therefore admissible.

A is incorrect because the evidence was not offered for the purpose
of  proving  that  the  plaintiff  engaged  in  any  particular  conduct.  If
proper, character evidence may, with some limitations, be used in any
litigation,  whether  civil  or  criminal.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect because evidence of reputation is not usually admissible for
the purpose of establishing that the person in question did or did not
act in a particular way on a particular occasion.

3. C The best evidence rule requires production of an original or qualified
duplicate when the terms of a writing are in dispute or when a writing
is  offered  as  evidence  of  a  fact  and  the  writing  is  not  shown  to  be
unavailable.  The  witness's  testimony  can  be  admitted  because  it  was

672

based on her own recollection and was not dependent on the plaintiff's
file  on  the  purchase.  The  copy  can  also  be  admitted  because  a
photocopy is admissible as a qualified duplicate.

4.  D  Under  FRE  401,  evidence  has  to  be  relevant  to  be  admissible.
Relevant  evidence  is  evidence  that  tends  to  make  any  fact  of
consequence  to  the  determination  of  a  case  more  probable  than  it
would  be  without  the  evidence.  Here,  relevant  evidence  would  be
evidence  tending  to  prove  the  university  president  is  not  racist.
However,  the  fact  he  granted  mayor's  request  for  a  donation  to  a
general flood relief fund does not do anything to show he's not a racist.
While minority neighborhoods may have been helped by the donation,
there is no indication he knew minority citizens would receive aid or
that he intended minority citizens to receive aid. At most, the donation
shows  he  is  charitable,  a  question  that  is  not  at  issue.  B is  therefore
incorrect.

A is incorrect because only facts related to the university president's
alleged  racism  may  be  admitted.  Facts  related  to  other  parts  of  his
character are irrelevant. C is incorrect because evidence of specific
acts may be used to prove character under FRE 405(b). However, as
stated  above,  his  donation  does  not  prove  anything  regarding  his
alleged racism.

5. D Hearsay is an out-of-court assertion offered for the purpose of proving
the truth of the matter asserted. Thus, if the plaintiff's statement to the
doctor  is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff  was  experiencing
pain  in  his  arm,  the  statement  would  be  hearsay.  An  exception  to  the
hearsay  rule,  however,  permits  the  admission  of  statements  made  as
part  of  a  medical  history  given  in  connection  with  a  medical
examination made for the purpose of treatment or diagnosis. Since the
doctor's examination was being made for the purpose of diagnosis, the
patient's  statement  should  be  admissible.  Under  FRE  803(4),  the
circumstances  surrounding  the  medical  examination  in  which  a
patient's  statement  was  made  go  to  the  weight  rather  than  to  the
admissibility of that statement. Thus, the fact that the examination was
not  made  for  the  purpose  of  treatment  or  that  it  was  made  in
contemplation  of  litigation  is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to  prevent
admission  unless  the  prejudicial  effect  of  the  statement  is  likely  to
outweigh  its  probative  value.  While  a  court  might  not  come  to  that
conclusion, the argument in D is the only one listed that could possibly

673

support the motion to strike.

A and B are incorrect because unless the probative value is likely to
be outweighed by the prejudicial effect, the fact that the examination
was not being made for the purpose of treatment or that it was being
made in contemplation of litigation would not be sufficient to result in
its exclusion. C is incorrect because there is no rule that prevents the
admission of self-serving statements.

6. D FRE  807  allows  courts  to  admit  hearsay  evidence  that  does  not  fall
within  any  well-defined  exclusion,  if  it  is  highly  reliable  and  badly
needed in the case. There are five requirements: 1. The statement must
have circumstantial guarantees of trustworthiness; 2. the statement must
be offered as evidence of a material fact; 3. the statement must be more
probative on the point for which it is offered than any other evidence
that is available through reasonable efforts; 4. use of the evidence must
be consistent with the general purposes of the FRE and the interests of
justice; and 5. the proponent of the evidence must give notice of his or
her intention to offer the statement sufficiently in advance of the trial or
hearing to provide a fair opportunity to prepare to meet it. However,
because  of  the  Sixth  Amendment's  Confrontation  Clause,  grand  jury
testimony  cannot  be  used  against  a  criminal  defendant  (other  than  the
testifier) unless the testifier takes the stand and is available for cross-
examination.  Here,  since  the  witness  is  not  available  to  be  cross-
examined  by  the  defendant's  lawyer  at  trial,  and  since  the  defendant
did not have the opportunity to cross-examine the witness at the time of
the grand jury, the witness's grand jury testimony can't be used against
the defendant.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

7. A Under FRE 801, a statement made by the party's agent or employee on
a matter within the scope of the relationship can be offered against the
opposing  party  as  an  admission.  Such  statements  are  not  considered
hearsay under the Rules. Here, since the man works for the amusement
park,  the  witness's  testimony  regarding  his  statement  can  be  admitted
as  an  admission  of  negligence  in  not  securing  the  plaintiff's  seatbelt.
Therefore, C and D are incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  declaration  against  interest  rule  only
applies when a declarant is unavailable. Here, there is no indication
the rollercoaster operator is not available to testify.

674

8. B  Since  hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement,  and  since  the  girl's
statement  that  the  defendant  struck  her  is  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving  that  the  defendant  struck  her,  the  statement  is  hearsay.  FRE
803(2) provides, however, that an excited utterance may be admissible
as an exception to the hearsay rule. An excited utterance is a statement
made about a startling event while the declarant is under stress caused
by the event. The common law equivalent—spontaneous declaration—
could not ordinarily be applied if the statement was made in response
to  a  question.  The  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  have  eliminated  that
condition,  however.  While  the  passage  of  time  might  lead  a  court  to
conclude  that  the  girl  was  no  longer  under  stress  produced  by  the
beating  and  hold  that  the  statement  is  not  admissible,  B  is  the  only
argument  listed  that  could  possibly  be  effective  in  response  to  the
objection.

Although a witness is permitted to make statements regarding her own
sense impressions, and these statements may include identification of
other persons, there is no hearsay exception for such statements when
they are made out of court. A and D are therefore incorrect. Similarly,
while  a  witness  may  make  statements  regarding  her  own  physical
condition, including explanations of the causes for that condition, C is
incorrect because the girl's statement was made out of court and was
not  given  in  connection  with  a  medical  examination  done  for  the
purpose of treatment or diagnosis.

9.  B  The  attorney-client  privilege  applies  to  communications  made  to  an
attorney by a person seeking legal advice. Generally, the privilege of
confidential  communication  with  an  attorney  extends  also  to  the
employees  or  agents  of  that  attorney  who  are  acting  in  furtherance  of
the attorney-client relationship. Some jurisdictions hold that where one
mistakenly  confides  in  another,  believing  the  other  to  be  an  attorney,
there  is  a  privileged  relationship  so  long  as  that  mistaken  belief  was
reasonable.  Thus,  if  the  defendant  reasonably  believed  that  he  was
communicating  with  an  agent  of  his  attorney,  the  conversation  may
have been privileged. While it is not certain that a court would come
to that conclusion, the argument in B is the only one listed that could
possibly support the motion.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  man's  statement  would  not  result  in  a
privilege  unless  the  defendant  was  speaking  with  the  man  for  the

675

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

purpose  of  obtaining  legal  advice.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  man's
offer  would  not  make  disclosure  of  the  facts  to  him  essential  to  the
relationship  between 
the  defendant  and  his  attorney.  Police
interrogation  of  a  person  in  custody  might  violate  the  man's
constitutional rights. Unless the man had been sent by the police for
the purpose of obtaining a statement from the defendant, however, the
fact  that  he  negotiated  a  plea  bargain  on  the  day  that  his  testimony
was  given  would  not  violate  the  defendant's  rights  and  would  not
prevent the man's testimony from being admissible as an admission.
D is therefore incorrect.

10. B  In  many  jurisdictions,  an  expert  witness  may  be  cross-examined  in
reference  to  a  text  not  in  evidence  only  if  his  or  her  opinion  was
based upon it. Under FRE 803(18), it is not necessary to show that the
witness relied on the text involved, but it is necessary to establish that
it  is  a  reliable  authority.  B  is  correct  because  neither  of  these  two
foundations has been laid.

A is incorrect because there is no requirement that the author of a text
used on cross-examination be a witness at the proceeding. C is only
partially  correct,  since  it  is  necessary  to  show  such  works  to  be
reliable  authorities  before  they  can  be  used  in  cross-examination.
Since the doctor's admission that he has heard of the specialist is not
sufficient  to  establish  that  her  work  is  a  reliable  authority,  D  is
incorrect.

11. C Under FRE 609, convictions may be used to impeach the credibility
of  a  witness.  A  court  may  not  exclude  proof  of  such  convictions  if
they are for felonies or for misdemeanors involving dishonesty. Since
attempted  murder  is  a  felony,  and  since  the  other  crime  was  a
misdemeanor involving dishonesty, evidence of both was admissible.

Therefore, A, B, and D are all incorrect.

12. D Hearsay is an out-of-court assertion offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted. Since the mechanic's statement was made out of court
and is offered to prove the truth of what it asserts, it is inadmissible
as hearsay.

Although  the  record  filed  by  the  inspector  might  qualify  as  either  a
business record or an official document, the transcript that it contains
of  a  statement  made  by  the  mechanic  makes  this  a  multiple  hearsay
problem. While the record itself might be admissible under one of the

676

two named exceptions to the hearsay rule, only that information that
was within the inspector's personal knowledge may be admitted. The
fact  that  either  the  declarant  or  the  person  who  made  the  record  is
dead is not in itself sufficient to make the statement admissible. A and
B are therefore incorrect. Under both the common law and FRE 
801(d)(2)(D),  a  statement  by  an  employee  may  be  admissible  as  a
vicarious admission of the employer only if the statement was made
within 
the  employment
relationship existed. Since the mechanic had been discharged before
making the statement in question, C is incorrect.

the  scope  of  employment  and  while 

13. D  Under  FRE  901(5),  voice  identification  can  be  made  by  a  witness
who  testifies  that  he  or  she  properly  dialed  a  number  listed  in  the
telephone  book,  and  that  circumstances  including  self-identification
show that the person listed was the one who answered.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  Since  the  defendant's  statement  is
contrary  to  his  interests,  it  is  an  admission,  which  is  not  hearsay
under  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  and  is  admissible  as  an
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  under  common  law.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.

14. A Although evidence of insurance is not admissible for the purpose of
showing fault or wrongful conduct, it is admissible for other purposes
if relevant to them. Evidence is logically relevant if it tends to prove
or disprove a fact of consequence. Since a person would probably not
purchase liability insurance on a vehicle that he or she does not own,
the fact that the defendant purchased the policy and that it was in force
on the day of the accident tends to establish that she was the owner of
the  vehicle  on  that  day.  It  is  thus  relevant  to  the  issue  of  ownership
and therefore admissible.

B  is  incorrect  since  a  defendant's  ability  to  pay  a  judgment  against
him  or  her  is  not  relevant  to  either  liability  or  damages  in  a
negligence  case.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  policy  mentioned
prevents such evidence only if offered to establish fault or wrongful
conduct.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  evidence  tends  to  establish
ownership, which has been disputed by the defendant.

15.  A  Under  FRE  803(3),  declarations  of  a  declarant's  then-existing
intentions are described as statements of present state of mind and are
admissible as exceptions to the hearsay rule. They may be relevant to

677

establish  that  the  declarant  acted  in  a  way  that  was  consistent  with
those  stated  intentions;  however,  such  evidence  is  relevant  only  to
establish  the  conduct  of  the  declarant  himself  or  herself.  The  view
taken by the majority and by the FRE is that they are not relevant to
establish  the  conduct  of  others.  Courts  generally  admit  such
statements  with  limiting  instructions  directing  the  jury  to  consider
them only on the issue of the declarant's actions.

B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

16. B Under FRE 803(2), a statement relating to a startling event that was
made while the declarant was under the stress of excitement from that
event  is  admissible  under  the  excited  utterance  exception  to  the
hearsay rule.

A is incorrect because the uncertainty of the identification goes to the
weight of the evidence rather than to its admissibility. C is incorrect
because a statement may be admissible as an excited utterance even
though  the  identity  of  the  person  making  it  is  unknown.  An  excited
utterance is admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule whether or
not other evidence is available. D is therefore incorrect.

17. D Hearsay is defined as an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth of the matter asserted in that statement. Since the publisher can
only be offering the bartender's statement to prove that the journalist
believed in his story, it is hearsay.

A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect, because under FRE 803(3), a
statement  of  a  declarant's  past  state  of  mind  is  admissible  only  in  a
will contest. That a statement is self-serving may keep it from being
admitted under certain exceptions to the hearsay rule, but it is never
grounds for its admission. C is therefore incorrect.

18. C Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted in that statement. If offered for any other purpose, it is
not hearsay. If an out-of-court statement has a direct legal effect apart
from its communicative effect, it is not hearsay since it is offered not
to prove the truth of any matter asserted but to prove its direct legal
effect.  Since  the  defendant  is  attempting  to  establish  that  the  watch
was a gift to him, and since the patient's words coupled with delivery
by  handing  the  defendant  the  watch  would  have  the  legal  effect  of
creating an executed gift, the statement is admissible.

An admission is a statement made by a party and offered against that

678

party. Since the patient is not a party to the proceeding, his statement
cannot  be  termed  an  admission.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  Dead
Man's Act, where it exists, prevents evidence of a conversation with
a decedent from being offered against the interests of that decedent. B
is incorrect, however, since the Dead Man's Act, if it existed, would
require  that  the  objection  be  sustained,  not  overruled.  The  patient's
statement  was  not  hearsay  since  it  is  offered  to  establish  its  direct
legal  effect  apart  from  its  communicative  effect.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

19. D Most modern courts, and FRE 701, allow laypersons to give opinions
regarding  matters  within  the  competence  of  the  ordinary  person  so
long  as  a  proper  foundation  is  laid.  This  foundation  requires  a
showing that the witness had experience that would enable him or her
to form an opinion, that he or she had an opportunity to perceive, and
that he or she formed an opinion based on that perception. Since the
officer has so testified, her testimony regarding the defendant's speed
should be admitted as a lay opinion.

A and B are therefore incorrect. Although some police officers might
qualify  as  experts  on  the  speeds  of  moving  vehicles,  C  is  incorrect
for two reasons: First, a witness to the speed of a vehicle need not be
an expert, and second, not all police officers qualify as experts.

20. D  Under  FRE  412,  reputation  evidence  of  the  past  sexual  behavior  of
the  victim  is  not  admissible  in  a  trial  for  rape  under  any
circumstances. Evidence of the victim's past is not admissible except
for  conduct  with  the  defendant  offered  to  support  a  defense  of
consent,  or  conduct  with  others  offered  to  show  that  the  defendant
was  not  the  source  of  semen  or  the  victim's  injury.  Since  the  court
record is not offered for these purposes, it is not admissible.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

A  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  Under  the  FRE,  evidence  of
conviction for a crime is admissible for the purpose of impeaching a
witness's  credibility  if  the  crime  was  a  felony  or  a  misdemeanor
involving  dishonesty.  Since  prostitution  is  neither,  the  conviction  is
not  admissible  to  impeach  the  victim's  credibility.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.

21. C Evidence of past dealings between the parties to a contract is usually
admissible  to  prove  the  intentions  of  the  parties  at  the  time  the
contract  was  formed.  This  is  only  so,  however,  if  conditions  at  the

679

time  the  previous  dealings  took  place  are  substantially  the  same  as
conditions  that  existed  at  the  time  the  contract  was  formed.  If  the
DVDs were being sold at an especially low price, evidence of past
sales  at  the  regular  price  might  not  be  relevant  in  determining  the
intentions of the parties.

the 

introduction  of  oral 

A  is  incorrect  because  the  evidence  is  not  being  offered  for  the
purpose  of  establishing  the  company's  conduct,  but  rather  for  the
purpose of establishing the store's intentions. The parol evidence rule
testimony  of  prior  or
prohibits 
contemporaneous  agreements  for  the  purpose  of  contradicting  the
terms  of  an  unambiguous  written  contract.  B  is  incorrect,  however,
since  the  absence  of  any  reference  to  the  way  in  which  the  product
was  to  be  packaged  would  make  the  contract  ambiguous,  and  oral
evidence  could  be  offered  to  explain  the  ambiguity.  D  is  incorrect
because  the  common  practice  would  not  in  itself  be  sufficient  to
overcome  the  expectations  that  might  have  resulted  from  past
transactions between the parties.

22. A Evidence that a party is insured is inadmissible to establish fault or
damage because insurance coverage or the lack of it is not logically
or  legally  relevant  to  those  issues.  For  this  reason,  it  is  ordinarily
improper  for  either  party  to  comment  on  insurance  or  the  lack  of  it
during  the  trial  of  a  negligence  action.  If  a  plaintiff  falsely  suggests
that the defendant is insured, however, a defendant may be permitted
to  counter  the  suggestion  by  proving  that  he  lacked  insurance.  Since
the  plaintiff's  attorney  asked  jurors  whether  they  owned  stock  in  an
automobile  liability  insurance  carrier,  a  court  might  conclude  that  a
false  suggestion  of  insurance  coverage  has  been  made  and  that  the
defendant  should  therefore  be  permitted  to  prove  that  he  had  none.
While it is not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, A is
the only option that could possibly be correct.

B is incorrect because the evidence involved was not offered for the
purpose  of  establishing  fault  or  freedom  from  it.  C  is  incorrect
because  there  is  no  prohibition  against  the  offer  of  evidence  that  is
self-serving  (a  party's  evidence  almost  always  is).  The  FRE
specifically authorize the admission of a judgment of conviction when
it is relevant. D is therefore incorrect.

23. D If relevant, photographs and films are admissible if a witness testifies
that  they  are  accurate  representations  of  what  they  purport  to  be.

680

Since  the  defendant  has  identified  the  videotape  copy  as  a  fair  and
accurate  representation  of  the  accident  scene,  and  since  the
appearance of the accident scene is relevant in the trial of an accident
claim, the videotape is admissible and D is correct.

Under  the  best  evidence  (i.e.,  original  document)  rule,  where  the
contents  of  a  document  are  in  issue,  secondary  evidence  of  its
contents is inadmissible unless the original or a qualified duplicate is
shown to be unavailable. Although a videotape could be regarded as
a  document  for  this  purpose,  A  is  incorrect  because  the  contents  of
the  videotape  are  not  in  issue;  the  tape  is  offered  to  show  what  the
accident scene looked like. Since the defendant testified that the tape
is  an  accurate  representation  of  the  accident  scene,  it  is  admissible
without  regard  to  its  custody  and  whereabouts  since  made.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  any  witness  may
authenticate  a  pictorial  representation  by  testifying  that  it  is  an
accurate representation of what it purports to be.

24. D Since a person who makes statements that contradict each other might
not  be  worthy  of  belief,  a  witness  may  be  impeached  on  cross-
examination by inquiry regarding prior inconsistent statements.

If a prior inconsistent statement is offered as substantive evidence, it
must  have  been  made  under  oath  and  at  a  trial.  But  a  prior
inconsistent statement used merely to impeach does not need to fulfill
those requirements. Since only impeachment use is being made here,
A is incorrect. Although it may be unethical for an attorney to make
contact  directly  with  an  adversary  known  to  be  represented  by
counsel,  information  obtained  by  such  a  contact  is  not  necessarily
inadmissible. In any event, B is incorrect because there is no reason
to believe that the plaintiff was represented by counsel at the time of
his conversation with the investigator, or, if he was, that the attorney
knew  him  to  be.  A  statement  of  a  party  offered  against  that  party  is
admissible  as  an  admission.  Under  FRE  801(d)(2),  an  admission  is
not hearsay; under the common law, an admission is an exception to
the hearsay rule. C is therefore incorrect.

25. B  Under  FRE  410(4),  a  withdrawn  guilty  plea  cannot  be  used  in  any
subsequent  action  or  proceeding,  so  if  the  plea  was  withdrawn,  the
buyer's attorney can properly be prevented from asking about it.

A  and  C  are  incorrect  because  the  circumstances  and  the  crime  to

681

which  the  plea  was  given  go  to  the  weight  rather  than  to  the
admissibility  of 
the
impeachment  of  the  seller's  witness  does  not  depend  on  the  seller's
employment of that witness.

incorrect  because 

the  evidence.  D 

is 

26.  C  Because  of  a  policy  to  encourage  repairs  of  dangerous  conditions,
evidence  that  a  defendant  repaired  a  condition  subsequent  to  the
occurrence  of  an  accident  is  inadmissible  for  the  purpose  of
establishing  negligence  or  that  the  condition  was  dangerous  at  the
time of the accident.

A  is  incorrect  for  that  reason,  and  because  the  term  admission
ordinarily describes an out-of-court statement made by a party. B is
incorrect  because  the  rule  of  policy  applies  whether  or  not  the
defendant has received notice of the accident and pending lawsuit. D
is incorrect because it is over-inclusive. Such evidence is admissible
for some purposes (like establishing ownership or control).

27.  C  Since  an  employer  is  vicariously  liable  for  the  negligence  of  an
employee  committed  within  the  scope  of  employment,  statements
tending  to  establish  that  the  accident  resulted  from  the  employee's
negligence are relevant in the plaintiff's action against the defendant.
The  evidence  should  thus  be  admitted  unless  excluded  under  the
hearsay rule. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted.  These  facts  raise  what  is  sometimes
called a multiple-level hearsay problem (i.e., a problem involving an
out-of-court  statement  that  contains  another  out-of-court  statement).
This  is  so  because  the  employee's  testimony  at  the  reckless  driving
trial  was  not  made  during  the  negligence  trial  and  so  is  an  “out-of-
court”  statement,  and  because  the  evidence  of  his  statement  is
contained  in  a  transcript  that  was  also  not  made  as  part  of  the
negligence  trial  and  so  is  an  “out-of-court”  statement.  For  multiple-
level hearsay (i.e., the transcript containing the employee's statement)
to be admissible, each level must be separately admissible. The first
level  of  hearsay  is  the  testimony  by  the  employee  at  the  reckless
driving trial. Under 
the  common  law,  statements  by  an  employee  are  admissible  against
the employer only if the employee had the authority to make them. But
FRE 801(d)(2)(D) requires only that 
the  employee's  statement  concerned  a  matter  within  the  scope  of  his
or her employment and was made while the employment relationship

682

existed. The employee's statement is therefore a vicarious admission,
which is an exception to the hearsay rule at common law and is not
hearsay  at  all  under  the  FRE.  The  second  level  of  hearsay  is  the
transcript. Since it was made by a public official (the court reporter),
regarding  “matters  observed  pursuant  to  duty  imposed  by  law  as  to
which matters there was a duty to report” (that the employee made the
admission), the transcript qualifies as a public record or report under
FRE 803(8). C is therefore correct.

Under FRE 804(b)(1), prior testimony is admissible as an exception
to the hearsay rule only if the party against whom it is offered had an
incentive  and  an  opportunity  to  cross-examine  when  the  testimony
was first given. Since the defendant was not a party to the proceeding
at which the employee's testimony was given, the testimony does not
qualify for admission under this exception. A  is  therefore  incorrect.
The past recollection recorded exception requires that the record was
made  from  the  recorder's  own  knowledge  and  requires  the  recorder
to  authenticate  the  record  in  court.  B  is  incorrect  because  the
employee's  statement  was  not  authenticated  or  recorded  by  the
employee. D is incorrect for the reasons stated above.

28.  B  Under  the  attorney-client  privilege,  the  client  has  a  right  not  to
disclose (and the right to prevent his or her attorney from disclosing)
any  confidential  communication  between  the  attorney  and  the  client
relating to the professional relationship. However, the privilege does
not  apply  to  a  communication  that  is  related  to  carrying  out  a  future
crime  or  wrong.  Here,  the  communication  relates  to  the  defendant's
apparent plan to shoot the victim, which was then carried out.

The attorney-client privilege applies to a professional attorney-client
relationship.  Importantly,  such  a  relationship  does  not  require  the
paying  of  a  fee.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  and  D  are  incorrect
because although the lawyer gave the defendant legal advice and the
conversation between them was confidential, it involved the carrying
out of a future crime.

29. C Under FRE 803(3), statements of a declarant's then-existing state of
mind  are  admissible  as  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  Since  it  is
likely  that  a  suicidal  state  of  mind  such  as  that  indicated  by  the
victim's  statement  to  the  psychiatrist  would  continue  until  the
following  day,  and  since  it  is  likely  that  a  person  with  that  state  of
mind would commit suicide, the fact that the victim was of a suicidal

683

state of mind on the day before his death is relevant to the question of
whether his death was a suicide. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement
offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted in that statement. If the
victim's  statement  to  the  psychiatrist  is  offered  for  the  purpose  of
establishing that the psychiatrist knew or should have known that the
victim was suicidal, it is not hearsay since it is not offered to prove
the truth of the matter asserted (i.e., that suicide is the only way out).

30. B Under FRE 803(18), statements contained in a published treatise may
be called to the attention of an expert on direct examination or cross-
examination,  and,  if  the  treatise  is  established  to  be  a  reliable
authority,  may  be  read  into  the  record.  To  prevent  the  jury  from
misunderstanding and misapplying a work written by and for experts,
however, the treatise itself is not admissible.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

31. D Under FRE 408, offers of compromise are excluded as evidence and
cannot  be  used  to  prove  or  disprove  the  validity  or  amount  of  any
disputed  claim.  Here,  there  is  clearly  a  disputed  claim  since  the
plaintiff and defendant are in court regarding potential liability for the
automobile accident.

A party admission is any statement made by a party to a lawsuit that
another party wants to use as evidence against that party. Here, while
the  plaintiff's  statement  is  clearly  a  party  admission,  it  is  excluded
under  FRE  408  because  the  plaintiff  offered  to  compromise  by
dismissing  the  suit  for  $10,000.  Therefore,  A  is  incorrect.  A
declaration  against  interest  is  a  statement  made  by  an  unavailable
declarant. This is an exception to the hearsay rule. Here, there is no
indication  the  plaintiff  is  not  available.  Therefore,  B  is  incorrect.
Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered in court to prove the truth
of  the  matter  asserted.  Here,  the  issue  is  that  the  plaintiff  offered
$10,000 to dismiss the case, not whether the statement was hearsay or
not. Therefore, C is incorrect.

32.  C  Under  FRE  608(a),  attempts  to  prove  a  defendant's  character  for
truthfulness  with  opinion  evidence  regarding  honesty  are  not
admissible  unless  the  defendant's  character  for  truthfulness  has  been
attacked. Even though the defendant testified in her own defense and
claimed she didn't vandalize the monument, there is no indication that
the  defendant's  character  has  been  attacked.  Therefore,  A, B,  and  D

684

are incorrect.

33. D Although evidence of subsequent repairs is inadmissible to establish
that a condition was dangerous or that the defendant was negligent, it
may be admitted if relevant to some other issue. Since it is not likely
that the landlord would have taken the action indicated if he were not
in  control  of  the  stairway,  the  evidence  may  be  admitted  for  the
purpose of establishing control.

A is incorrect because it suggests that some rule of privilege prevents
testimony by the defendant's employee, when no such rule exists. The
admissibility of the manager's testimony does not, therefore, depend
on his employment status. B and C are incorrect because of the policy
rule that prohibits evidence of subsequent repairs to establish fault.

34. A Silence may be regarded as a tacit admission of a fact asserted in the
presence of the person remaining silent under circumstances such that
a reasonable person would have denied the assertion. Evidence of the
defendant's  refusal  to  answer  the  plaintiff's  assertion  is  therefore
admissible  as  an  admission  so  long  as  a  reasonable  person  would
have denied the assertion.

If  it  were  not  otherwise  admissible,  however,  the  mere  fact  that  the
defendant was a party and able to deny it would not be sufficient to
make  the  testimony  admissible.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is
incorrect  because  silence  may  constitute  an  admission  as  stated
above.  The  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  against  self-incrimination
might  prevent  an  inference  of  guilt  from  being  drawn  in  a  criminal
case from the silence of a defendant, but it does not prevent such an
inference from being drawn in a civil case. D is therefore incorrect.

35.  C  Under  the  best  evidence  rule,  where  the  terms  of  a  writing  are  in
issue,  the  writing  itself  must  be  offered  into  evidence  unless  the
writing  is  shown  to  be  unavailable  through  no  action  in  bad  faith.
Since the original and all copies of the contract were destroyed in a
fire, oral testimony as to its contents is admissible.

The  parol  evidence  rule  prohibits  oral  testimony  of  prior  or
contemporaneous agreements to alter the terms of a contract intended
to be a complete integration of the parties, but it does not prevent oral
testimony  regarding  the  contents  of  a  written  agreement.  A  is
therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  writing  has  been
shown to be unavailable. The Statute of Frauds provides that certain

685

contracts are unenforceable unless in writing, but it does not relate to
the  evidence  used  to  establish  the  existence  of  a  contract.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

if 

the  witness's  prior  statement 

36.  B  Certain  prior  inconsistent  statements  of  a  trial  witness  are
substantively  admissible 
is
inconsistent  with  the  witness's  trial  testimony  and  was  given  under
oath  subject  to  the  penalty  of  perjury  at  a  trial,  hearing,  or  other
proceeding,  or  in  a  deposition.  Importantly,  a  prior  inconsistent
statement  that  was  not  made  under  oath,  or  not  given  at  a  formal
proceeding,  is  not  substantively  admissible.  In  that  case,  the  prior
inconsistent  statement  can  be  used  for  impeachment  purposes  only.
Here, the witness's statement was not made under oath or in any type
of proceeding—it was made the day after the accident to her neighbor
in the backyard, so it can only be used to impeach the witness. A and
“Circumstantial  guarantees  of
C 
trustworthiness” come into play when determining whether FRE 807's
residual exception applies. Therefore, D is incorrect.

incorrect. 

therefore 

are 

37. C The defense of entrapment applies if the police were responsible for
inducing  the  defendant  to  commit  a  crime  that  he  was  not  otherwise
likely  to  commit,  and  it  does  not  apply  if  the  defendant  was
predisposed  to  commit  the  crime  charged.  Since  the  defendant  has
raised the defense of entrapment, evidence that he had previously sold
heroin is relevant to establish his predisposition to do so at the time
when the officer made the purchase.

Although  character  evidence  is  not  admissible  for  the  purpose  of
showing that a criminal defendant committed a certain act, it may be
admissible  against  him  or  her  for  other  purposes.  A  is  therefore
incorrect. B is incorrect because the evidence was being offered not
to establish the defendant's character but to establish that the officer
provided  the  opportunity  for  the  crime  (which  is  not  entrapment)
rather than that he induced the defendant to commit it (which would
have  been  entrapment).  D  is  incorrect  because  character  evidence
may not be used for that purpose.

38.  D  Since  an  attorney  is  entitled  to  control  the  direction  of  his  or  her
examination, an answer that is otherwise admissible may be stricken
if it is not responsive to the question asked. Since the supermarket's
attorney did not ask why the plaintiff delayed consulting with counsel,
the plaintiff's explanation is unresponsive to the question and may be

686

stricken. D is therefore correct.

Although  policy  prevents  admission  of  settlement  negotiations  to
prove damage, the rule of limited admissibility permits admission of
such  evidence  if  it  is  offered  for  some  other  purpose,  such  as  to
explain  the  delay  in  instituting  an  action.  A  is  incorrect,  however,
because  although  otherwise  admissible,  that  portion  of  the  answer
may be stricken as unresponsive. B is incorrect because a policy rule
specifically prohibits the admission of settlement negotiations for the
purpose of establishing fault. C  is  incorrect  because  the  policy  rule
does not apply if the evidence is offered for a proper purpose.

39.  B  At  one  time,  the  courts  recognized  a  prohibition  against  opinion
testimony  relating  to  an  ultimate  issue  in  the  case  on  trial.  Now,
however,  it  is  recognized  that  such  testimony  may  be  admitted  in
evidence so long as the opinion is not couched in legal terms. Since
the  word  obscene  has  special  legal  significance,  the  professor  may
not state an opinion that the film was obscene.

A is incorrect for the reason stated above. C is not the best argument.
Since a witness may qualify as an expert by a showing of his or her
knowledge,  skill,  experience,  training,  or  education  in  a  particular
area, the fact that the witness is a professor of film arts and an author
of several books on the topic of erotic filmmaking would probably be
sufficient to qualify her as an expert. D is incorrect because FRE 702
abandons the requirement of strict necessity for expert testimony and
permits it whenever the witness's specialized knowledge will assist
the jury to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue.

40.  C  Although  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  against  self-incrimination
protects a witness in a civil or criminal case against being required to
give  testimony  that  might  tend  to  incriminate  him  or  her,  it  does  not
justify a complete refusal to take the stand except by a defendant in a
criminal prosecution.

The  privilege  applies  to  any  testimony  anywhere  if  it  might
subsequently be used in a criminal proceeding against the person who
gave it. A and B are therefore incorrect. D  is  incorrect  because  the
bookkeeper's  belief  would  justify  his  refusal  to  answer  certain
questions, but not his complete refusal to take the stand.

41.  A  Certain  prior  inconsistent  statements  of  a  trial  witness  are
is

the  witness's  prior  statement 

substantively  admissible 

if 

687

inconsistent  with  the  witness's  trial  testimony  and  was  given  under
oath  subject  to  the  penalty  of  perjury  at  a  trial,  hearing,  or  other
proceeding,  or  in  a  deposition.  Here,  because  the  prior  inconsistent
statement was made at a deposition, it is substantively admissible to
prove the truth of the matter asserted. B is therefore incorrect. While
the  statement  may  be  necessary  in  the  interests  of  justice,  that
consideration  comes  into  play  when  courts  determine  whether  the
residual exception might apply. C is therefore incorrect. A statement
against  interest  references  declarations  which,  at  the  time  they  are
made, are so against the declarant's interest that it is unlikely that they
would have been made if they were not true. Here, as far as the facts
provided  in  the  question  go,  the  witness's  prior  statement  seems  to
have nothing to do with her own interests. D is therefore incorrect.

42. D Evidence is admissible if relevant, and relevant if it tends to prove or
disprove  a  fact  of  consequence.  Since  the  defendant  could  not  have
committed the crime if he was elsewhere at the time, evidence of his
whereabouts tends to establish his guilt or innocence and is therefore
relevant.

A and B are incorrect statements because FRE 607 expressly permits
a party to impeach his or her own witness. A hostile witness is one
who manifests hostility to the attorney questioning him or her, not just
one who gives unexpected answers. Since the friend did not manifest
hostility, C is incorrect.

43. A  Hearsay  is  a  statement,  other  than  one  made  by  the  declarant  while
testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth
of the matter asserted. Here, the woman's statement is hearsay since it
is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  defendant  really  did  murder  the
doctor.  The  statement  is  not  admissible  under  the  excited-utterance
exception  because  the  man's  statement  did  not  relate  to  the  event
causing the man's stress and excitement (namely, the car wreck). B is
therefore  incorrect.  The  statement  is  not  admissible  under  the  dying
declaration  exception  because  it  doesn't  concern  the  cause  or
circumstances  of  the  declarant's  impending  death.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.  A  “present  sense  impression”  refers  to  circumstances
where the statement is describing or explaining an event or condition
made  while  the  declarant  was  perceiving  the  event  or  condition,  or
immediately thereafter. D is therefore incorrect.

44. D A client is privileged to prevent another from disclosing the contents

688

of a confidential communication with his or her attorney. Although the
presence  of  third  persons  usually  results  in  a  finding  that  the
communication  was  not  intended  to  be  confidential,  this  is  not  so  if
the  presence  of  those  persons  was  essential  to  the  communications
with  the  attorney.  The  driver's  presence  does  not  prevent  the
president's  communication  with  the  attorney  from  being  confidential
since, as the driver of the truck, she was essential to the conference
between the president and the attorney.

A  is  incorrect  since  if  the  communication  was  confidential,  the
client's privilege applies to any attempt to disclose it. B is incorrect
because  the  driver's  presence  was  essential  to  the  purpose  of  the
conference.  C  is  incorrect  because  corporations  are  entitled  to  the
privilege, which clearly applies to communications between lawyers
and high-ranking officers of the corporation.

45. A Under FRE 901(b)(6), voice identification can be made if the witness
testifies that she properly dialed a number listed in the directory and
the  person
circumstances, 
answering to be the one listed and called.

including  self-identification,  show 

B  is  a  fabrication;  although  the  combination  of  a  listing  in  the
telephone  directory  and  self-identification  by  the  person  answering
the phone may result in an inference regarding that person's identity,
there  is  no  presumption  that  the  person  who  answered  identified
himself  or  herself  accurately.  C  is  incorrect  since  the  FRE  make
independent 
the  circumstances
described  above.  The  privilege  against  self-incrimination  protects
against “testimonial communications” but does not prevent testimony
by  others  than  the  defendant  concerning  admissions  made  by  the
defendant. D is therefore incorrect.

recognition  unnecessary  under 

46.  A  Cross-examination  is  normally  limited  to  the  subject  matter  of  the
direct  examination  and  matters  concerning  the  credibility  of  the
witness.  The  court  does  have  discretion  to  allow  cross-examination
that goes beyond the scope of direct, but judges are extremely unlikely
to  allow  questions  that  will  disturb  a  party's  tactical  decisions  in
presenting his or her case. Here, the plaintiff has decided to use the
defendant's  testimony  only  to  establish  that  the  defendant  did  the
operation.  Consequently,  the  objection  should  be  sustained  for  this
reason. B is therefore incorrect.

689

C is  incorrect  because  the  examiner's  question  does  not  have  to  do
with credibility. D is incorrect because the question goes outside the
scope  of  direct  since  the  defendant  was  only  asked  one  question  on
direct that only involved whether he was the one who did the surgery.

47. A  Under  FRE  803's  excited  utterance  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule,  a
statement made during or soon after a startling event is admissible so
long as the declarant makes the statement while the declarant is still
excited by the event. Here, seeing the defendant covered in blood and
saying  he  shot  his  wife  is  clearly  a  startling  event,  and  the  fact  the
neighbor  shouted  the  statement  while  banging  on  the  witness's  door
shows she was still under the stress of the excitement. Therefore, C
and D are incorrect.

B is incorrect because FRE 803 does not require an excited declarant
be unavailable to testify.

48. A Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted in that statement. Since the statement that a blue sedan
was traveling at an excessive speed was made out of court, and since
it was offered to prove that the defendant's blue sedan was traveling
at an excessive speed, it is hearsay. A is therefore correct.

A witness may testify to his or her sense impression, even though that
testimony is stated as an opinion. Since the witness is not testifying to
her  own  sense  impression  but  rather  to  something  that  she  heard
another  person  say,  B  is  incorrect.  Under  the  hearsay  exception
known  as  “past  recollection  recorded,”  a  witness  may  read  from  a
written  note  if  he  or  she  made  it  himself  or  herself  based  on
information that he or she knew of his or her own knowledge while
the information was fresh in his or her mind. The note that the witness
read  does  not  qualify,  however,  because  it  was  not  based  on
something  that  she  knew  of  her  own  knowledge  but  rather  on
something she had heard another person say. C is therefore incorrect.
A  witness  may  refresh  his  or  her  recollection  while  testifying  by
examining  almost  anything  that  will  have  that  effect.  He  or  she  may
then testify from his or her refreshed recollection, but only if his or
her  testimony  is  otherwise  admissible.  Since  the  statement  to  which
the witness is attempting to testify is hearsay, it is inadmissible and is
not made admissible by the fact that she refreshed her recollection by
looking at a writing. D is therefore incorrect.

690

49. A Hearsay is defined as an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  Since  the  defendant's
statement  that  the  light  was  red  was  made  out  of  court,  and  since  it
apparently was offered to prove that the light was red, it is  hearsay
and therefore inadmissible. Although the defendant may testify to facts
that  he  knows  of  his  own  knowledge  (i.e.,  that  the  light  was  red
against  the  plaintiff),  he  may  not  testify  to  an  out-of-court  statement
for  the  purpose  of  proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that
statement (i.e., hearsay).

Since his testimony is not that the light was red but rather that he told
the police officer that it was red, B is incorrect. Evidence of a prior
consistent  statement  may  be  admissible  to  rebut  a  claim  of  recent
fabrication. C  is  incorrect,  however,  because  there  is  no  indication
that the plaintiff has claimed that the defendant's statement about the
color of the light is a recent fabrication. Hearsay is inadmissible even
though  the  declarant  is  present  in  court  and  available  for  cross-
examination. D is therefore incorrect.

50. D Under FRE 412, a rape victim's past sexual conduct is generally not
admissible  in  a  prosecution  for  her  rape.  An  exception  is  made,
however, for evidence of past sexual conduct between the defendant
and the complainant if offered to support the defense of consent. Since
evidence regarding past sexual conduct between the defendant and the
victim  might  tend  to  support  the  defendant's  assertion  that  he
reasonably believed that the victim consented, it should be admitted.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
complainant's  past  sexual  conduct  does  not  ordinarily  tend  to
establish  that  defendant  did  or  did  not  have  sexual  intercourse  with
her against her will on the occasion in question.

51.  A  The  law  seeks  to  encourage  safety  precautions  by  prohibiting
evidence  of  subsequent  remedial  measures  from  being  used  for  the
purpose of showing fault. Such evidence may be admissible for other
purposes, however. Here, the defendant had denied ownership of the
vehicle.  Since  it  is  unlikely  that  anyone  other  than  the  owner  would
arrange to have the brakes overhauled, the testimony of the mechanic
is  relevant  to  establish  the  defendant's  ownership  and  should
therefore be admitted.

B is incorrect because of the above-stated policy rule. C is incorrect

691

because the evidence is being used to establish that the defendant was
the owner of the vehicle, not to establish the condition of the brakes.
D  is  incorrect  since  the  evidence  is  admissible  to  establish
ownership.

52. D Evidence is relevant if it would tend to establish a fact in issue. If the
tape  would  tend  to  prove  that  the  defendant  was  the  robber,  it  is
logically relevant. It should, therefore, be excluded only if it violates
some other rule of evidence or if its probative value is substantially
outweighed by its prejudicial impact.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination
applies  only  to  “testimonial  communications”  and  does  not  prevent
evidence based on observations of the defendant. Whether or not it is
certain that the person pictured in the videotape was the defendant is
a  question  for  the  jury.  The  robber's  skin  coloring  (like  his  height,
weight,  and  walk)  is  relevant  to  his  identification.  Since  there  are
many people with the same skin color, the fact that the robber's was
the  same  as  the  defendant's  is  not  in  itself  enough  to  result  in
prejudice  that  outweighs  the  probative  value  of  the  videotape.  B  is
therefore incorrect. An admission by conduct is an act by a defendant
from  which  the  logical  inference  may  be  drawn  that  he  or  she
believes himself or herself to be criminally liable. Usually, it refers
to  flight,  the  use  of  an  assumed  name,  fabrication  of  evidence,  or
some other act committed after the crime. C is therefore incorrect.

53. D  Hearsay  is  a  statement,  other  than  one  made  by  the  declarant  while
testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth
of the matter asserted. Here, the witness is repeating the victim's out-
of-court  statement,  and  the  statement  is  being  used  to  prove  the
defendant was the assailant.

A is incorrect because the “excited utterance” exception only applies
when  the  statement  relates  to  a  startling  event  or  condition,  and  the
statement  is  made  while  the  declarant  is  still  under  the  stress  of
excitement caused by the event or condition. B is  incorrect  because
the  “present  sense  impression”  exception  is  an  exception  for
statements describing or explaining an event or condition made while
the  declarant  is  perceiving  the  event  or  condition,  or  immediately
thereafter.  Here,  the  statement  was  made  two  days  later,  so  the
witness  was  no  longer  under  the  stress  of  excitement  caused  by  the
event,  nor  was  the  witness  describing  the  event  while  the  witness

692

was  perceiving  it.  The  “declaration  against  interest”  exception
applies when the declaration, at the time it is made, is so against the
declarant's  interest  that  it  is  unlikely  it  would  have  been  made  if  it
was  not  true.  Importantly,  the  exception  involves  looking  at  the
declarant's interest, and this answer choice is asking you to consider
the defendant's interest instead of the witness's interest. C is therefore
incorrect.

54.  A  Hearsay  is  defined  as  an  out-of-court  assertion  offered  for  the
purpose  of  proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted.  The  fact  that  a
witness made a prior contradictory statement is relevant to his or her
credibility  as  a  witness,  whether  or  not  the  prior  statement  was
actually true, since people who tell different stories on different days
may  not  be  worthy  of  belief.  If  offered  for  that  purpose,  and  not  to
prove the absence of gunshots, the officer's testimony is not hearsay. If
offered  to  prove  that  there  were  no  gunshots  (i.e.,  as  substantive
evidence), however, it is hearsay.

B and C are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect, since for purposes of
impeachment, the statement is not hearsay because it is not offered to
prove the truth of what it asserted.

55.  C  Former  testimony  is  admissible  if  it  was  given  under  oath  by  a
presently  unavailable  declarant  in  a  proceeding  where  the  party
against  which  it  is  now  offered  had  an  opportunity  and  incentive  to
cross-examine. Since the inspector did not respond to the subpoena,
he  is  presently  unavailable.  Since  his  testimony  was  given  at  a
criminal prosecution of the corporation, at which the corporation had
opportunity  and  incentive  to  cross-examine,  the  former  testimony  is
admissible. Although the facts do not indicate how the inspector knew
that the driver was intoxicated or why he was permitted to so testify
at the criminal negligence trial, C is the only reason listed that could
result in the admission of his statement.

An  admission  is  a  statement  made  by  a  party  that  is  offered  against
that  party.  Since  the  inspector  is  not  a  party,  A  is  incorrect.  A  past
recollection recorded must have been prepared by the witness while
the information was fresh in his or her mind and requires the witness
to testify that the record was true when made. Since the inspector did
not record the statement and is not present to testify, B is incorrect. A
present sense impression is a statement describing an event that was
made  while  or  soon  after  the  declarant  perceived  the  event.  Since

693

there  is  no  indication  that  the  inspector  perceived  the  event,  D  is
incorrect.

56.  C  Under  FRE  804(b)(2),  a  statement  is  admissible  as  a  dying
declaration in a civil or criminal case if it was made by a person now
unavailable,  about  the  cause  of  his  or  her  death,  upon  personal
knowledge, and under a sense of immediately impending death. Since
the victim is presently unavailable and said that he saw the defendant
shoot  him,  his  statement  is  admissible  if  he  made  it  with  a  sense  of
impending death.

Although the common law made such statements admissible in cases
of criminal homicide only, A is incorrect because the FRE extend the
exception to civil litigation as well. Transactional immunity prevents
criminal  prosecution  but  does  not  prevent  civil  litigation.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  Where  it  exists,  the  effect  of  the  “dead  man's
statute” is to exclude certain evidence, not to make it admissible. D is
therefore incorrect.

57. B Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  An  admission  is  an  out-of-court
statement made by a party that is offered against that party. Under the
common law, admissions are admissible as exceptions to the hearsay
rule. Under FRE 801(d)(2), admissions are admissible because they
are  not  hearsay.  If  an  employee  of  a  party  makes  a  statement  that  is
offered  against  the  employer,  the  statement  may  be  admissible  as  a
vicarious  admission  of  the  employer  if  it  was  made  while  the
employment  relationship  existed  and  concerned  a  matter  within  the
scope  of  the  declarant's  employment.  If  the  mechanic  was  employed
by the airline as a mechanic, his statement that he failed to inspect the
plane  does  concern  a  matter  within  the  scope  of  his  employment.  It
would  not  be  admissible  as  a  vicarious  admission  of  the  airline,
however,  unless  it  can  be  established  that  the  mechanic  was  so
employed. If the mechanic made an out-of-court statement that he was
so employed, it would be hearsay if offered to prove his employment
by  the  airline.  For  this  reason,  independent  evidence  of  the
employment relationship is required.

A is therefore incorrect. Although the common law requires that the
declarant  be  one  authorized  to  speak  for  the  party,  C  is  incorrect
because  the  FRE  have  abolished  that  requirement.  D  is  incorrect
because the unavailability of a declarant is not in itself sufficient to

694

make his or her out-of-court assertion admissible.

58. B Under FRE 803(3), an assertion of a declarant's then-existing physical

sensation is admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule.

Statements  made  as  part  of  a  medical  history  may  be  admissible  if
made  for  purposes  of  diagnosis  or  treatment.  Ordinarily,  “medical
history”  refers  to  statements  made  by  a  declarant  about  physical
sensations and events in the past. A is incorrect for this reason, and
because  the  nurse's  testimony  does  not  indicate  that  the  plaintiff's
complaints were made  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  a  diagnosis  or
treatment.  C  is  incorrect  because  others  than  the  injured  party  may
testify  to  objective  signs  of  pain  or  to  the  injured  party's  statements
about  the  pain  if  they  fit  into  exceptions  to  the  hearsay  rule.  D  is
incorrect because of the present physical sensation exception.

59.  C  Evidence  is  relevant  if  it  tends  to  prove  or  disprove  a  fact  of
consequence.  Relevant  evidence  is  ordinarily  admissible.  Self-
defense  is  a  privilege  to  use  force  that  the  reasonable  person  in  the
defendant's  shoes  would  have  considered  necessary  to  prevent  an
attack  upon  himself  or  herself.  Evidence  of  the  plaintiff's  reputation
for  unprovoked  violence  is  relevant  because  it  tends  to  establish
whether  the  reasonable  person  in  the  defendant's  shoes  would  have
believed himself or herself to be under attack.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  the  evidence  is  relevant  to  the
reasonableness  of  the  defendant's  fear.  D  is  incorrect  because  the
plaintiff's  character  is  not  related  to  the  essential  elements  of  a
battery action.

60.  D  An  expert  may  testify  to  an  opinion  based  upon  material  not  in
evidence  so  long  as  it  is  material  upon  which  the  reasonable  expert
would  have  based  an  opinion,  even  if  the  material  itself  would  be
inadmissible.

A is therefore incorrect. An X-ray is regarded as a writing, and if a
witness is testifying only to its contents, it may be covered by the best
evidence rule. If so, such testimony may be excluded unless it can be
shown that the X-ray itself is not available. In this case, however, the
witness was not testifying solely to the contents of the X-ray, but to an
opinion that she formed based upon examination of the plaintiff's leg,
in  addition  to  study  of  the  X-ray.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is
incorrect because an expert may base his or her opinion testimony on

695

material not in evidence.

61.  D  Evidence  of  the  non-occurrence  of  similar  accidents  might  be
admissible  to  prove  that  the  area  was  not  dangerous,  but  only  if  the
condition during the period testified to was substantially the same at
the  time  of  the  accident.  Since  there  is  no  indication  that  the  stairs
were littered with paper during the period described by the witness,
the  fact  that  no  similar  accidents  occurred  does  not  prove  that  the
condition was not unsafe when the plaintiff fell.

A and B are therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because it is perfectly
permissible and proper for witnesses to give self-serving testimony.
(That they often do is illustrated by the fact that criminal defendants
frequently say, “I didn't do it!”)

62. A If the declarant is unavailable as a witness, a statement made under
the belief of impending death is admissible under an exception to the
hearsay  rule.  While  the  declarant  must  be  aware  of  his  or  her
impending  death,  he  or  she  does  not  have  to  actually  die.  The  only
requirement is that the declarant is unavailable. Here, since the man
has fled and moved beyond the court's subpoena power, the exception
applies. C and D are  therefore  incorrect.  An  excited  utterance  is  an
exception  for  certain  statements  made  under  the  influence  of  a
startling event. Here, the declarant is in bed dying from cancer, which
is  not  a  “startling  event”  (e.g.,  a  car  crash,  shooting,  etc.).  B  is
therefore incorrect.

63. D Since cross-examination about the witness's whereabouts is directly
relevant to impeachment of his direct testimony, his refusal to answer
makes  meaningful  cross-examination  impossible.  When  a  witness
cannot  be  subjected  to  full  cross-examination,  his  direct  testimony
should be stricken.

A is incorrect because the privilege is available whenever testimony
of the witness might lead to criminal prosecution of the witness, even
though the matter in which the testimony is elicited is not a criminal
proceeding.  The  privilege  against  self-incrimination  would  offer
little protection if it was necessary for the person invoking it to show
how  the  statement  might  be  incriminating.  Thus,  unless  it  is
impossible to conceive of circumstances in which the answer called
for would be incriminating, the witness may invoke the privilege. B
is therefore incorrect. C is a fabrication without any basis in law; in

696

any  event,  it  is  patently  incorrect  since  the  issue  is  not  whether  the
witness  should  have  been  allowed  to  invoke  the  privilege  but
whether his direct testimony should have been stricken.

64. B A writing may be admitted under the business record exception to the
hearsay  rule  if  it  was  made  in  the  course  of  a  regularly  conducted
business  activity  from  the  recorder's  own  knowledge  or  from  an
inherently  reliable  source  and  was  accurate  when  made.  If  the
investigation of crimes is not a regularly conducted business activity
for  the  college,  its  record  of  such  an  investigation  would  not  be
admissible as a business record. Although it is not certain that a court
would  come  to  that  conclusion,  the  argument  in  B  is  the  only  one
listed that could possibly support the defendant's objection.

A  is  incorrect  because  a  business  record  may  be  admissible  even
though  the  person  who  made  it  is  available  and  has  testified.  C  is
incorrect because it is an inaccurate statement of law; the exception
applies  in  all  trials.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to
prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  The  phrase
“second-level hearsay” is sometimes used to describe a hearsay that
is  included  in  another  statement  that  is  also  hearsay.  Here,  for
example,  the  defendant's  statement  was  made  out  of  court  and  is
offered to prove that the defendant stabbed the victim (i.e., the matter
asserted). The file that includes the statement is also an out-of-court
statement that is offered to prove the truth of what it asserts (i.e., that
the  defendant  said  he  stabbed  the  victim).  D  is  incorrect,  however,
because the defendant's statement is an admission, which FRE 801(d)
(2)  defines  as  a  statement  made  by  a  party  and  offered  against  that
party, and which that rule specifically provides is not hearsay.

65.  B  Evidence  that  the  witness  never  observed  strange  behavior  in  a
testator  is  admissible  to  prove  he  or  she  was  competent,  but  only  if
the nature of the witness's experience with the testator is such that he
or  she  is  likely  to  have  observed  such  behavior  if  it  occurred.
Semiannual  examinations  of  the  testator  probably  are  not  frequent
enough  to  permit  the  inference  that  behavior  that  did  not  occur  on
those visits did not occur at other times.

A is incorrect since if a witness does have sufficient opportunity to
observe, the testimony will be admitted. C is incorrect since the door
is thus opened only to testimony that is not otherwise inadmissible. D
is incorrect because the doctor is not testifying to his opinion but to

697

his observations.

66.  D  The  FRE  recognize  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  for  business
records.  Some  courts  interpret  the  FRE  in  a  way  that  makes  police
records  inadmissible  under  this  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  Other
courts  interpret  the  FRE  in  a  way  that  makes  police  records
admissible under this exception. Under FRE 803(6), a written report
is  admissible  as  a  business  record  if  it  was  made  in  the  regular
course  of  business,  while  the  transaction  recorded  was  fresh  in  the
entrant's  mind,  regarding  facts  within  his  or  her  own  knowledge  or
from  an  inherently  reliable  source.  The  statement  contained  in  the
police record filed by the witness was not based on a fact known by
the  witness  of  his  own  knowledge.  It  might  still  be  admissible,
however, if it had been received from an inherently reliable source.
Although the other officer may be regarded as such a source, he did
not have personal knowledge either. Since the source of the recorded
fact was an unidentified witness, and since an unidentified witness is
not an inherently reliable source, the record is not admissible.

Although  a  testifying  witness  may  refresh  his  or  her  recollection  by
reference to documents that are not in evidence, his or her doing so
does not make those documents admissible. A is therefore incorrect.
B is incorrect for the reason given above. Since the police are in the
business—among  other  things—of  investigating  accidents,  a  police
report  may  be  regarded  as  a  record  kept  in  the  usual  course  of
business and may be admissible as such if all the other requirements
are met. C is therefore incorrect.

67. A Unless it is excluded by some rule of law, evidence is admissible if it
is  relevant  to  a  material  issue.  Since  contracts  are  interpreted  in
accordance with the intentions of the parties, the buyer's intentions are
material to the seller's action for breach of contract. Since the buyer
did  not  understand  the  seller's  statement,  the  brother's  translation  of
that statement would tend to establish (i.e., is relevant to) the buyer's
intentions. It should therefore be admitted.

In  jurisdictions  that  have  a  “dead  man's  statute,”  that  law  may
prohibit  the  admission  of  evidence  regarding  a  transaction  with  a
decedent. B  is  incorrect  because,  although  the  “dead  man's  statute”
may  result  in  the  exclusion  of  evidence,  it  is  never  used  as  a
justification  for  its  admission.  If  the  brother  were  testifying  to  the
meaning of a Dutch word or expression, his testimony would not be

698

admissible unless he qualified as an expert on the Dutch language. C
is incorrect, however, because the brother's testimony is not offered
for the purpose of explaining the meaning of the seller's language but
for  the  purpose  of  showing  what  the  buyer  believed  it  to  mean.
Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  Since  the
brother's  statement  to  the  buyer  was  made  out  of  court,  it  would  be
hearsay if offered for the purpose of proving the truth of anything that
it asserted. D is incorrect, however, because the statement is offered
not to prove the truth of what was asserted by either the seller or the
brother,  but  to  establish  the  buyer's  state  of  mind  at  the  time  of  the
negotiation. It is therefore not hearsay.

68. D The fact that a witness made prior statements that were inconsistent
with  his  or  her  testimony  indicates  that  he  or  she  may  not  be  a
credible  witness,  or  at  least  that  his  or  her  testimony  may  not  be
worthy  of  belief.  Thus,  for  the  purpose  of  impeachment,  a  witness
may be cross-examined about prior inconsistent statements. Since the
defendant's  statement  to  the  arresting  officers  was  inconsistent  with
his statement on the witness stand, he may be cross-examined about it.

Statements  obtained  in  violation  of  a  prisoner's  Miranda  rights
cannot be used against him or her in a criminal prosecution. Because
use  of  such  statements  for  impeachment  in  a  civil  proceeding  is  not
ordinarily  contemplated  by  the  police,  prohibiting  such  use  is  not
likely to affect police conduct. For this reason, it has been held that
statements  obtained  in  violation  of  a  prisoner's  Miranda  rights  may
be  used  for  purposes  of  impeachment  in  civil  proceedings.  A  is
therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the
defendant's motion was to suppress the use of the physical evidence
rather  than  the  use  of  statements  made  during  the  interrogation,  and
second,  even  an  order  suppressing  the  use  of  his  statements  in  the
criminal  prosecution  would  not  prevent  their  use  in  this  civil
proceeding. If statements are obtained from a prisoner in violation of
his or her constitutional rights, the same policy that prohibits their use
as  evidence  prohibits  the  use  of  leads  obtained  as  a  result  of  those
statements. This is the “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine. Although
this doctrine may result in the exclusion of evidence, it is never used
to justify the admission of evidence. C is therefore incorrect.

69. B Under FRE 803(6), a properly authenticated written record qualifies

699

as  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  if  it  was  made  as  part  of  the
regular course of business while the transaction recorded was fresh in
the  entrant's  mind  regarding  facts  within  his  or  her  personal
knowledge  or  from  an  inherently  reliable  source.  This  invoice  was
kept in the regular course of business and has been authenticated by
the  employee.  Although  the  employee  did  not  personally  know  the
contents of the shipment, the shipping clerk's business duty to report
accurately makes him an inherently reliable source, and the employee
made  the  entries  immediately  upon  receiving  the  information  from
him.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  past  recollection  recorded  exception
applies  only  if  the  record  was  prepared  from  the  witness's  own
knowledge, and permits it to be read to the jury, but not admitted into
evidence. The best evidence rule provides that where the contents of
a  writing  are  in  issue,  secondary  evidence  of  the  writing  is
inadmissible  unless  the  original  is  shown  to  be  unavailable.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  effect  of  the  best  evidence  rule  is  to  exclude
certain classes of evidence and not to make admissible evidence that
would  otherwise  be 
inadmissible.  A  witness  whose  present
recollection  has  been  refreshed  by  reference  to  a  document  may
testify from his or her refreshed recollection. D is incorrect because
the employee stated that she had no present recollection and because
the attorney for the plaintiff sought to introduce the document itself.

70.  D  Under  the  UCC,  evidence  of  the  usage  of  trade  terminology  is
admissible to prove the meaning of such terms in a contract between
parties in the trade. Since both the plaintiff and the defendant are in
commercial industry, the witness's evidence of trade usage should be
admissible.

Witnesses  frequently  make  self-serving  statements.  In  fact,  almost
anything  said  by  a  party-witness  is  likely  to  be  self-serving  (e.g.,  a
criminal defendant's testimony that she is “not guilty,” or a personal
injury  plaintiff's  testimony  that  the  defendant  went  through  a  red
light). A  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  rule  of  law  that  excludes
self-serving statements from evidence. Hearsay is defined as an out-
of-court statement offered for the purpose of proving the truth of the
matter asserted in that statement. Since the witness's testimony is not
of  an  out-of-court  statement,  it  cannot  be  hearsay.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.  Although  proof  of  an  established  business  custom  may  be

700

offered as evidence that it was followed on a particular occasion, C
is  incorrect  because  the  witness  has  not  testified  to  any  particular
custom of her company.

71. D Under FRE 412, evidence of specific acts involving the victim's past
sexual behavior is admissible in a rape trial only if it is relevant to an
issue  regarding  the  source  of  semen,  or  if  it  involves  past  sexual
behavior between the victim and the defendant and is offered for the
purpose  of  establishing  the  defense  of  consent.  Since  the  defendant
admits to having sexual intercourse with the victim, there is no issue
regarding the source of semen. Although the defendant has asserted a
defense  of  consent,  the  evidence  offered  by  his  attorney  does  not
relate  to  prior  sexual  contact  between  the  defendant  and  the  victim.
The evidence is thus inadmissible.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

72. A FRE 501 provides that in the trial of a civil proceeding in which state
law  provides  the  rule  of  decision,  the  rules  of  privilege  shall  be
determined  in  accordance  with  state  law.  Thus,  if  a  civil  action  is
being tried in a federal court under the substantive law of a state, the
federal  court  must  apply  the  state  law  of  privilege.  If  the  state  law
recognizes a psychotherapist-patient privilege, the federal court must
recognize it as well. Consequently, C and D are incorrect. If the state
law  does  not  recognize  a  psychotherapist-patient  privilege,  the
federal court may not. B is therefore incorrect.

73.  C  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  assertion  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving the truth of the matter asserted. Since the witness's testimony
referred to the doctor's assertion that the pink pills were for pain and
was offered for the purpose of proving that the plaintiff took them for
pain, that assertion is hearsay.

A  declaration  of  the  declarant's  present  physical  sensation  is
admissible  as  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  The  plaintiff's
statement, “My neck hurts,” might thus be admissible. A is incorrect,
however,  because  the  doctor's  statement  did  not  declare  anything
about  his  own  physical  state.  B  is  incorrect  for  the  same  reason.
Statements  of  a  declarant's  past  physical  sensation  are  admissible
under  the  medical  history  exception  if  made  to  a  doctor  for  the
purpose of diagnosis and treatment. D is incorrect, however, because
the objection was to testimony regarding a statement by the doctor.

701

74.  C  Under  FRE  801(d)(1)(C),  evidence  of  prior  identification  is  not
hearsay,  if  the  declarant  is  on  the  witness  stand  and  available  for
cross-examination.

A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect for two reasons: First, a party
is  permitted  to  impeach  his  or  her  own  witness,  and  second,  to
impeach  means  to  attack  the  witness's  credibility,  which  the
prosecuting  attorney  has  not  attempted  to  do  to  the  employee.  D  is
incorrect because although a jury may consider the fact that a witness
is  interested  or  disinterested  in  weighing  the  value  of  his  or  her
testimony, the interest of a witness does not affect the admissibility of
his or her testimony.

75. B Under FRE 803(18), so long as the judge believes the passages are
relevant  to  some  issue,  the  engineer  may  read  those  passages,  and
they  will  be  admissible  to  prove  the  assertions  they  make  regarding
proper  building  and  engineering  techniques.  However,  a  “learned
writing,”  such  as  the  book,  may  not  be  admitted  as  an  exhibit.  The
jury may only hear the appropriate portions read to it, and interpreted
for it by the expert on the stand at the time.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

76.  D  It  is  the  jury's  job  to  determine  whether  the  evidence  proves  facts
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of law as charged by the court.
Expert  opinion  may  be  admitted  to  assist  the  trier  of  fact  to
understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue, but it may not
be  stated  in  a  way  that  would  deprive  the  jury  of  its  power  to
determine facts. Since the jury must decide whether the defendant had
malice aforethought, expert testimony regarding the defendant's mental
capacity would be admissible. The doctor's statement, however, did
not express an opinion regarding the defendant's mental condition but
rather his opinion whether the defendant had malice aforethought.

Although  the  common  law  once  prohibited  expert  testimony  that
“embraced the ultimate issue,” A is incorrect because FRE 704 (and
the  laws  of  many  states)  have  eliminated  this  restriction.  The
opinions of an expert may be based solely on courtroom observations
(or may even be based on assumed facts contained in a hypothetical
question).  The  fact  that  a  testifying  psychiatrist  has  never  spoken  to
the subject or even seen him or her outside a courtroom may reflect
on the weight (i.e., persuasive value) of his or her testimony but not

702

on its admissibility. B and C are therefore incorrect.

77. B Under FRE 804(b)(2), a statement qualifies for the dying declaration
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  if  it  was  made  by  a  presently
unavailable  person  under  a  sense  of  immediately  impending  death
upon  personal  knowledge  respecting  the  cause  and  circumstances  of
death  and  is  offered  in  a  criminal  homicide  trial  or  a  civil  action.
Since the plaintiff was in court, she is not presently unavailable, and
her statement does not qualify as a dying declaration.

A is incorrect because it is sufficient that the statement concerned a
cause  or  circumstance  of  what  the  plaintiff  believed  was  her
impending  death.  Although  the  common  law  restricted  the  use  of
dying declarations to criminal homicide trials, C is incorrect because
the  FRE  specifically  authorize  their  admission  in  civil  proceedings.
The FRE do not require that the declarant actually be dying to qualify
his  or  her  statement  as  a  dying  declaration,  so  long  as  he  or  she
believed himself or herself to be dying at the time he or she made it.
D is therefore not sufficient reason to prevent the plaintiff's statement
from being admissible as a dying declaration.

78. C In general, evidence is admissible if it is relevant to a material issue.
Since the defendant's negligence is a material issue in a malpractice
action  against  him,  testimony  that  is  relevant  to  the  defendant's
negligence  is  admissible  unless  excluded  under  one  of  the  rules  of
evidence.  The  common  law  attorney-client  privilege  prevents  an
attorney  from  testifying,  over  his  or  her  client's  objection,  to
confidential  communications  by  the  client  that  were  related  to  the
professional  relationship.  The  privilege  does  not  prevent  such
testimony,  however,  in  litigation  relating  to  a  breach  of  duty  arising
from the relationship.

Thus, A is incorrect. B is incorrect for the above reason, and because
even  unnecessary  statements  may  be  privileged  if  they  relate  to  the
purpose  of  the  consultation.  Ordinarily,  the  attorney-client  privilege
survives the relationship, protecting the confidentiality even after the
attorney-client relationship ceases to exist. Thus, D is incorrect.

79. A At common law, a confidential communication made to an attorney by
a  person  seeking  legal  advice  is  generally  privileged.  If  the
communication is made in the presence of a third person, an inference
may  be  drawn  that  the  person  speaking  did  not  intend  for  the

703

communication  to  be  confidential.  However,  if  the  presence  of  the
third  person  was  necessary,  such  an  inference  cannot  be  drawn  and
the communication remains privileged. Since state law provided for
the  designation  of  the  father  as  the  defendant's  legal  guardian  and
required  his  joinder  as  a  defendant  in  an  action  against  her,  his
presence at the consultation with the attorney was necessary so that he
could assure that the defendant's rights were protected.

it 

is 

incorrect  because 

is  over-inclusive;  only 

B 
those
communications  that  the  client  intended  to  be  confidential  are
privileged.  Where  two  or  more  clients  have  consulted  an  attorney
together on a matter of common interest, their communications are not
privileged  if  one  client  seeks  to  offer  them  as  evidence  against  the
other. C is incorrect, however, because unless the father is seeking to
offer  the  attorney's  testimony  against  the  defendant  (or  vice  versa),
the mere fact that the defendant and the father are joint defendants is
not sufficient to destroy the privilege. A confidential communication
made  to  an  attorney  while  seeking  legal  advice  is  privileged  at
common  law,  whether  or  not  the  attorney  actually  gives  advice  or
agrees  to  represent  the  person  who  made  the  communication.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

80. A Judicial notice is a doctrine that permits courts to accept as true facts
or propositions of law without specific evidence. A fact that has been
judicially noticed becomes part of the record and requires no further
proof.  Although  judicial  notice  is  commonly  taken  of  the  statutes  of
the  state  in  which  a  particular  court  is  sitting,  most  jurisdictions  do
not  permit  municipal  ordinances  to  be  judicially  noticed,  requiring
that  their  contents  be  proven  as  facts.  However,  because  this
jurisdiction  permits  a  court  to  take  judicial  notice  of  municipal
ordinances,  the  court  could  judicially  notice  the  section  in  question
and deny the defendant's motion for dismissal.

In  determining  whether  there  has  been  a  violation,  the  trier  of  fact
may consider facts that have been judicially noticed by the court. B is
therefore  incorrect.  Ordinarily,  judicial  notice  is  taken  of  facts  that
are  commonly  known.  This  may  include  the  contents  of  laws,  since
all are presumed to know them. C is incorrect for two reasons: First,
the judge's personal expertise or knowledge of particular facts is not
sufficient to justify his judicially noticing them, and second, judicial
notice may be taken of commonly known or readily verifiable facts,

704

even  though  the  judge  lacks  personal  expertise.  The  contents  of
relevant law must be proven unless they are judicially noticed by the
court.  Since  courts  frequently  refuse  to  take  judicial  notice  of
municipal ordinances, D is over-inclusive and therefore incorrect.

81. C  A  witness  who  testifies  under  a  grant  of  use  immunity  is  protected
against  use  of  that  testimony  in  any  subsequent  criminal  proceeding
against him or her. Since the commissioner was not a defendant in the
prosecution,  use  immunity  did  not  prevent  the  use  of  his  statement.
FRE 613 permits the admission of prior inconsistent statements of a
witness  for  the  purpose  of  intrinsically  or  extrinsically  impeaching
the credibility of that witness. Evidence of the commissioner's prior
statement  is  thus  admissible  for  the  purpose  of  impeachment.  FRE
801  permits  the  use  of  a  witness's  prior  inconsistent  statement  as
substantive evidence if it was given under oath subject to the penalty
of  perjury  at  a  trial,  hearing,  or  other  proceeding.  Since  the
commissioner's  statement  was  made  under  oath  at  a  grand  jury
proceeding, it is admissible as substantive evidence as well.

A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

82. A  If  a  proper  foundation  is  laid,  evidence  that  a  place  has  been  used
over  a  period  of  time  without  any  accident  is  logically  relevant  to
prove  that  the  place  was  not  dangerous.  The  foundation  for  such
negative evidence requires proof, however, that the place was used a
substantial  number  of  times  under  substantially  similar  conditions.
The  witness's  testimony  that  the  street  was  a  busy  thoroughfare  is
probably sufficient to establish its use a substantial number of times.
Unless,  however,  it  is  established  that  the  street  was  substantially
unchanged,  proof  that  there  were  no  prior  accidents  is  irrelevant  to
the plaintiff's claim that there was a dangerous curve in the road.

B  is  incorrect  because  if  a  proper  foundation  is  laid  for  the
introduction  of  negative  evidence,  there  is  no  requirement  that  the
court issue a special instruction to the jury. The argument in C is one
that  the  plaintiff's  attorney  may  make  to  the  jury  in  an  attempt  to
persuade it not to draw from the witness's testimony an inference that
the  street  is  safe.  C  is  incorrect,  however,  because  if  a  proper
foundation  for  the  evidence  is  laid,  that  argument  goes  to  its  weight
rather  than  to  its  admissibility.  Although  negative  evidence  presents
severe  relevancy  problems,  the  laying  of  a  proper  foundation
resolves  them,  making  such  evidence  admissible.  B  is  therefore

705

incorrect.

83. A Unless otherwise provided by law, all evidence is admissible that has
a  tendency  to  prove  or  disprove  a  fact  of  consequence  (i.e.,  that  is
relevant).  Since  the  hotel  has  denied  ownership  and  control  of  the
alley,  evidence  relevant  to  ownership  or  control  is  therefore
admissible. The testimony of the witness is relevant to ownership or
control since it is unlikely that hotel employees would clean the alley
if  the  hotel  did  not  own  or  control  it.  His  testimony  is  therefore
admissible.

Hotel employees might have begun cleaning the alley even though the
hotel  did  not  own  or  control  it,  and  the  hotel  attorney  may  try  to
convince a jury not to infer ownership or control from the remedial
measure. B is incorrect, however, because the argument that it states
goes  to  the  weight  rather  than  the  admissibility  of  the  evidence.
Although a policy seeks to encourage safety by prohibiting evidence
of subsequent remedial measures for the purpose of proving fault, C
and  D  are  incorrect  because  the  testimony  of  the  witness  is
admissible for the limited purpose of proving ownership or control.

84.  D  Under  FRE  803(3),  an  assertion  of  the  declarant's  then-existing
physical sensation is admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule.
The common law makes a distinction that prohibits the admission of
such statements if they were made in contemplation of litigation. The
FRE  do  not  make  such  a  distinction,  however,  allowing  the
circumstances  under  which  the  statement  was  made  to  go  to  the
weight rather than the admissibility of the evidence.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  Where  it  is  recognized,  the
physician-patient  privilege  may  prevent  the  admission  of  testimony
by  a  doctor  regarding  confidential  communications  with  the  patient
over  objection  by  the  patient.  C  is  incorrect  because  an  objection
based  on  the  privilege  would  not  be  available  to  anyone  but  the
patient.

85.  C  Under  FRE  803(2),  a  statement  relating  to  a  startling  event  made
while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by the
event  is  admissible  as  an  excited  utterance.  This  is  so  even  if  the
declarant's identity is unknown.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  term  self-serving  declaration  usually
refers  to  an  out-of-court  statement  made  by  a  party  and  which  is

706

offered by that party to prove an element of his or her case. Like any
other  hearsay,  it  is  inadmissible  unless  it  falls  into  one  of  the
exceptions to the hearsay rule. (For example, a document containing
self-serving declarations might be admissible as a business record.)
Since the victim is not a party to the prosecution, it is probably not
correct  to  call  his  testimony  self-serving.  More  important,  although
self-serving  declarations  made  out-of-court  may  be  excluded  from
evidence  as  hearsay,  there  is  no  rule  prohibiting  self-serving
testimony.  For  these  reasons,  B  is  incorrect.  Although  an  excited
utterance  is  admissible  only  if  made  by  a  declarant  with  personal
knowledge, such knowledge is presumed. D is therefore incorrect.

86. B A witness is permitted to refresh her recollection before testifying by
reviewing  past  notes,  depositions,  and  other  statements.  FRE  612
gives the trial court discretion to require the production at trial of any
writings  that  were  used  to  refresh  a  witness's  recollection  before
trial.

Secondary evidence to prove the contents of a writing is inadmissible
under  the  best  evidence  rule  unless  the  original  or  a  qualified
duplicate  is  shown  to  be  unavailable.  Thus,  if  the  witness  were
testifying  to  the  contents  of  the  notes,  her  testimony  would  be
inadmissible  unless  the  notes  were  shown  to  be  unavailable.  She  is
not  testifying  to  the  contents  of  the  notes,  however,  but  from  her
memory after refreshing it by looking at the notes. For this reason, the
best  evidence  rule  is  inapplicable,  and  A  is  incorrect.  Although  the
notes  have  not  been  offered  into  evidence,  they  have  been  used  to
refresh  the  witness's  recollection  before  trial.  For  this  reason,  the
court  may  require  their  production  under  FRE  612.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.  An  admission  is  a  statement  by  a  party  that  is  offered
against that party. Since the witness is not a party to the proceeding,
her statements cannot be admissions. D is therefore incorrect.

87.  D  Although  the  court  decides  whether  evidence  is  admissible  and
whether a witness is competent to testify, it is for the jury to decide
what weight to give testimony that the court has admitted. In doing so,
the jury must determine how credible it finds a particular witness to
be.  If  that  witness  is  an  expert  testifying  to  his  or  her  opinions,  it
would be impossible for the jury to make that determination without
the
knowing 
defendant's  attorney  is  not  sufficient,  since  it  is  very  likely  that  the

the  witness's  qualifications.  The  concession  by 

707

jury  will  hear  contrary  opinions  given  by  other  experts.  To  decide
which  of  the  experts  it  believes,  the  jury  must  be  able  to  compare
their  qualifications.  For  this  reason,  the  details  of  the  doctor's
qualifications  remain  an  issue  even  though  the  defendant's  attorney
concedes that she is sufficiently qualified to testify to her opinions.

A and B are therefore incorrect. If all parties agree to a fact, a court
may  accept  it  as  true  without  requiring  further  proof.  Thus,  if  all
parties agree that a particular witness qualifies as an expert, the court
may—on the basis of that stipulation—dispense with the requirement
of  further  proof  (although  it  may  not  prevent  the  party  offering  the
testimony of that witness from questioning him or her about his or her
qualifications). C is therefore incorrect.

88. A In general, evidence is admissible if it is relevant to a material issue
(i.e.,  tends  to  establish  some  fact  of  consequence)  in  the  litigation.
Since  liability  for  negligence  does  not  depend  on  whether  the
defendant  was  insured,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  was  or  was  not
insured is not of consequence (i.e., not relevant to a material issue) in
the litigation. It is therefore not admissible.

A  compromise  consists  of  a  payment  or  a  promise  to  pay  given  in
return for a promise to discontinue or not to assert a claim. Since the
defendant  was  not  offering  anything  in  return  for  a  promise  not  to
assert  a  claim,  his  statement  was  not  a  compromise  offer.  B  is
therefore incorrect. Admissions are words or acts of a party offered
against that party. Under the common law, admissions of a party may
be  admissible  as  exceptions  to  the  hearsay  rule;  under  FRE  801(d)
(2),  admissions  of  a  party  are  not  hearsay  at  all.  Like  all  other
evidence, however, admissions may be admitted only if relevant to a
material  issue.  Since  the  fact  that  the  defendant  was  or  was  not
insured is not material, his statement—even if it could be regarded as
an  admission—is  inadmissible.  (Note:  It  might  be  argued  that  the
defendant's statement implies that he knew himself to be at fault. This
argument would not make the statement admissible, however, because
FRE 411 specifically provides that evidence that a party was insured
is not admissible for the purpose of establishing that party's fault or
liability.)  FRE  803(2)  provides  that  an  excited  utterance  may  be
admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule and defines an excited
utterance as a statement relating to a startling event or condition that
is made while the declarant is under stress or excitement caused by

708

that  event  or  condition.  D  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the
defendant's statement that he had plenty of insurance is not related to
the accident that produced his excitement, and second, like any other
evidence, an excited utterance is not admissible unless it is relevant
to a material issue.

89. A The credibility of a witness may be impeached extrinsically (i.e., by
evidence  that  does  not  come  from  the  witness's  own  mouth)  by
evidence that tends to show that his or her testimony is not worthy of
belief  because  he  or  she  was  incapable  of  perceiving  accurately.
Since the witness stated that his identification of the defendant was by
the light of the full moon, evidence that there was no moon that night
would  tend  to  show  that  the  witness's  identification  is  unworthy  of
belief because he was incapable of making accurate observations.

The phrase res gestae was formerly used to refer to statements made
under stress resulting from a startling event. Its use has largely been
replaced  by  the  “excited  utterance”  concept.  B  is  incorrect  because
the testimony of the expert did not refer to any statement made while
under  stress  or  excitement.  Except  for  evidence  of  prior  statements,
the  FRE  do  not  require  confrontation  as  a  foundation  for  the
introduction of extrinsic evidence offered to impeach a witness. C is
therefore incorrect. A matter is described as “collateral” if it is not
material to issues in a case. D is incorrect because a witness's ability
to perceive or remember is always regarded as material.

90. A Although evidence of unconvicted bad acts is generally inadmissible
to extrinsically impeach a witness, FRE 404 provides that it may be
admissible for other purposes. One of the most common permissible
uses  of  such  evidence  is  to  create  an  inference  that  the  defendant  is
guilty  of  the  crime  charged  by  showing  that  it  was  part  of  a  general
criminal  plan  or  scheme.  Since  the  defendant's  possession  of  41
different  credit  cards  bearing  36  different  names  suggests  that  she
planned to make fraudulent use of them all, evidence of that fact may
be  admissible.  Such  circumstantial  evidence  must  be  subjected  to
close  examination  to  determine  whether  its  probative  value  is
outweighed  by  its  prejudicial  effect,  so  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court
would admit the evidence. Of all the arguments set forth, however, A
is  the  only  one  that  could  possibly  provide  the  prosecutor  with  an
effective argument in opposition to the motion to exclude.

Since  the  defendant  is  not  charged  with  stealing  credit  cards,  an

709

inference that she did so is not relevant to any fact of consequence in
the  prosecution.  For  this  reason,  B  is  incorrect.  (Note:  It  might  be
logical  to  argue  that  such  an  inference  is  relevant  because  a  person
who  would  steal  credit  cards  is  probably  disposed  to  make
fraudulent  use  of  them.  Such  an  argument  would  fail,  however,
because evidence of unconvicted acts is inadmissible for the purpose
of proving a mere criminal disposition.)

Under  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  against  self-incrimination,  a
criminal defendant cannot be required to explain his or her conduct.
C  is  therefore  incorrect.  An  admission  by  conduct  occurs  when  a
party engages in conduct that indicates his or her own belief that he or
she  is  guilty  of  the  crime  charged  (e.g.,  attempting  to  bribe  an
arresting officer to let the defendant go free or attempting to flee after
being charged with a crime). Since possession of credit cards bearing
other  names  does  not  indicate  that  the  defendant  believed  herself  to
be  guilty  of  fraudulently  using  the  card  bearing  the  name  “Timothy
Nolan,” it is not an admission by conduct. D is therefore incorrect.

91.  C  The  fact  that  a  witness  has  previously  made  a  statement  that  is
inconsistent  with  his  or  her  testimony  indicates  that  he  or  she  is  not
always honest and that, therefore, his or her testimony is not worthy of
belief. For this reason, a witness may be cross-examined about prior
inconsistent  statements.  Although  the  common  law  requires  that  the
witness first be told when and to whom the statement was made, the
FRE have dispensed with this requirement.

For  the  above  reason,  A  and  D  are  incorrect.  Under  some
circumstances, former testimony given under oath may be admissible
as  substantive  evidence,  but  prior  inconsistent  statements  are
admissible for purposes of impeachment even if not made under oath.
B is therefore incorrect.

92. B In general, evidence is admissible only if it is relevant to a material
issue. Evidence is relevant to a material issue if it tends to establish
some  fact  of  consequence.  Since  the  defendant  is  charged  with
knowingly  possessing  the  marijuana  found  in  the  trunk,  the  only
material  issue  is  whether  the  defendant  knew  it  was  there.  The  note
from  his  wife  may  indicate  that  they  smoked  marijuana  together  on
some other occasion (although her use of the word “stuff” makes even
this questionable), but it does not tend to establish anything about the
defendant's knowledge of what was in the trunk of the borrowed car.

710

For  that  reason,  it  is  not  relevant  to  a  material  issue  and  should  be
excluded.

Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  There  is  some  doubt  about  the
reason for offering the note from the defendant's wife. If it is offered
for  any  reason  other  than  to  prove  that  they  “got  high  on  the  stuff
[they]  smoked  last  night,”  it  is  not  hearsay.  Even  if  it  is  offered  for
that  purpose,  however,  it  probably  falls  under  an  exception  to  the
hearsay rule since it is a declaration against the penal interests of the
defendant's wife. Although declarations against the penal interest are
not  exceptions  to  the  hearsay  rule  at  common  law  (which  makes  an
exception  only  for  declarations  against  financial  interest),  they  are
exceptions under FRE 804(b)(3). 
A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Under  the  common  law  spousal  privilege,
one spouse may not give evidence against another in a criminal case.
Thus,  if  the  jurisdiction  recognizes  the  common  law  spousal
privilege, it would probably result in the exclusion of the note from
the  defendant's  wife.  C  is  incorrect,  however,  because  its  language
indicates  that  this  would  be  the  only  reason  for  excluding  the  note,
and,  as  explained  above,  the  note  would  be  excluded  even  if  the
jurisdiction  did  not  recognize  this  privilege.  Although  the  statement
contained  in  the  note  from  the  defendant's  wife  is  a  declaration
against her interest and therefore an exception to the hearsay rule, it is
not  admissible  because,  as  explained  above,  it  is  not  relevant  to  a
material issue. D is therefore incorrect.

93. A  Most  jurisdictions  hold  that  cross-examination  should  be  limited  to
inquiry  into  matters  to  which  the  witness  testified  on  direct
examination.  Some  jurisdictions  grant  broader  latitude.  All  agree,
however,  that  questions  that  go  beyond  the  scope  of  cross-
examination  are  improper.  Thus,  if  the  question  went  beyond  the
scope of cross-examination, the objection should be sustained.

B  is  incorrect  because  leading  questions  are  permitted  on  cross-
examination. A hostile witness is one who has demonstrated anger or
hostility to the attorney questioning him or her. C is incorrect because
there is no indication that the plaintiff has done so. Since the question
is  not  whether  the  dog  is  gentle,  but  whether  the  dog  is  generally
known  to  be  gentle,  the  plaintiff's  expertise  (or  lack  of  it)  on  the
subject of dog behavior is irrelevant. D is therefore incorrect.

711

94. A Ordinarily, a will must be authenticated by witnesses who testify to
its  execution.  A  is  therefore  correct.  FRE  902  provides  that
periodicals,  publications  issued  by  public  authorities,  and  certified
copies  of  public  records  are  self-authenticating.  B,  C,  and  D  are
therefore incorrect.

95. B If a proper foundation is laid, evidence that a particular product has
been  used  many 
is  admissible  as
times  without  accident 
circumstantial  evidence  that  its  condition  is  not  dangerous.  The
required foundation includes evidence that the conditions under which
the product was used were identical to those that existed at the time of
the accident and that the witness would have heard if there had been
any accidents. Since the witness testified that more than 10,000 of the
motorcycles  were  sold,  since  presumably  they  were  used  on  roads,
and since most of these roads have bumps, the requirement of use in
identical  conditions  has  probably  been  satisfied.  To  complete  the
required foundation, it is thus necessary only to show that the witness
was the person to whom all complaints of product failure would have
been made.

A is incorrect because although a judge may choose to give a special
instruction regarding the uncertainty of negative evidence, there is no
rule of law requiring such an instruction. C is incorrect because the
objection that it raises goes to the weight rather than the admissibility
of  the  evidence.  D  is  incorrect  because  under  conditions  such  as
those described above, negative evidence is admissible.

96.  A  Evidence  that  tends  to  impeach  a  witness's  credibility  by  showing
bias  is  admissible.  The  facts  that  the  witness  and  the  plaintiff  were
political  rivals,  and  that  the  witness  had  used  smear  tactics  in
campaigning against the plaintiff in the past, would tend to show bias
and are therefore likely to be admitted.

B is incorrect because the fact that the magazine brought the plaintiff's
reputation into issue is not in itself sufficient to require the admission
of  evidence  of  a  type  that  would  otherwise  be  inadmissible.  An
admission is a statement by a party that is offered against that party.
Since  the  official  is  not  a  party,  nothing  said  by  him  could  be
regarded  as  an  admission.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect,
since the evidence was admissible to show bias.

97.  C  Under  FRE  803(4),  statements  purporting  to  describe  the  way  in

712

which  a  physical  condition  came  about  are  admissible  as  part  of  a
medical history if made for the purpose of diagnosis, and if pertinent
to diagnosis. The term diagnosis refers to the nature and origin of an
injury. Even though the doctor's examination was performed to enable
her to testify, she was attempting to form a diagnosis. Since the sound
made by the plaintiff's elbow striking the pavement might be pertinent
to a determination of the nature and origin of the plaintiff's injury (i.e.,
a diagnosis), the statement is admissible.

A is incorrect because a statement made as part of a medical history
is  admissible  as  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  B  is  incorrect
because even though the examination was performed in contemplation
of the doctor's testimony, one of its purposes was to allow the doctor
to  diagnose  (i.e.,  determine  the  nature  of)  the  plaintiff's  injury.
Although  a  witness  might  be  permitted  to  testify  to  his  or  her  own
former sense impression, there is no exception to the hearsay rule for
a witness's repetition of a declarant's former sense impression. D is
therefore incorrect.

98.  D  The  records  are  relevant  to  the  issues  since  they  would  tend  to
establish  what  knowledge  the  company  had  regarding  the  effects  of
the car's design. They are not privileged for the following reasons:

They are not an attorney's work product because they do not contain
mental  impressions  formed  by  an  attorney.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.
They are not materials prepared for litigation since they were made
before  the  car  was  even  marketed.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  They
were  not  prepared  for  the  purpose  of  communicating  with  the
company's attorney, so C is incorrect.

99. C An expert may testify in answer to a hypothetical question so long as
the facts assumed in that hypothetical have been established (or will
be  established)  by  the  evidence  offered.  Since  the  plaintiff's  case
involves  the  assertion  that  her  fall  down  the  stairs  resulted  in  her
injury, it was proper for the school's attorney to ask for the doctor's
opinion as to whether such an injury was possible given such facts.

The  expert's  answer  may  be  based  on  the  facts  assumed  in  the
hypothetical  and  need  not  be  based  on  facts  actually  in  evidence  or
known  by  him  or  her.  A and B  are  therefore  incorrect.  Although  an
expert's  opinion  may  be  based  on  observations  made  in  the
courtroom, D is incorrect because the doctor's was not.

713

100. A The statement of the eyewitness fits the classic definition of hearsay:
an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter
asserted in that statement.

Exceptions  to  the  hearsay  rule  are  made  for  past  recollection
recorded  and  business  records,  but  only  if  the  person  recording  the
information knew it to be true of his or her own knowledge when the
record was made. Since the officer could not have known of his own
knowledge whether the statement of the eyewitness was true, B and D
are  incorrect.  Res  gestae  is  sometimes  used  as  a  synonym  for
“excited  utterance,”  but  C  is  incorrect  because  the  fact  that  the
statement resulted from an interview would probably prevent it from
being an excited utterance and because there is no indication that the
witness made the statement under stress.

101. C Under both FRE 803(7) and the majority rule, if a business record is
otherwise  admissible,  the  absence  of  entries  in  it  may  be  used  to
establish non-occurrence of a particular event if it was the practice of
the business to promptly record all such events.

A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because the fact that evidence
is  self-serving  is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to  make  it  inadmissible.
Although almost anything may be used by a witness to refresh his or
her recollection, the fact that a document was so used is not sufficient
to permit its admission into evidence. D is therefore incorrect.

102. D Laypersons may testify to their sense impressions in terms of opinion
when  there  is  no  other  practical  way  to  describe  these  sense
impressions.  The  only  possible  way  of  describing  the  smell  of
alcohol  is  to  say  that  it  smells  like  alcohol,  and  testimony  so
describing it is admissible.

A leading question is one that would cause the reasonable person to
believe  that  the  questioner  was  seeking  one  specific  answer  rather
than another. A is incorrect because the question did not indicate what
answer  it  sought.  B  is  incorrect  because  under  the  circumstances,  a
conclusion  was  the  only  possible  way  of  describing  the  officer's
sense  impression.  Although  it  was  once  held  that  opinion  testimony
was  not  admissible  if  it  went  to  an  ultimate  issue  in  the  case,  the
prohibition  has  been  abandoned  under  the  FRE  and  in  a  majority  of
common law jurisdictions. C is therefore incorrect.

103. D  In  interpreting  terms  in  a  contract,  courts  attempt  to  determine  what

714

the  parties  had  in  mind  when  they  agreed  to  those  terms.  Since
evidence  of  prior  transactions  between  the  same  parties  may  be
relevant  indications  of  what  they  were  thinking  or  expecting  when
they  formed  the  agreement,  such  evidence  is  ordinarily  admissible.
However, evidence of transactions that did not involve the defendant
would not give any indication of the defendant's state of mind unless
the defendant was aware of those transactions. Since the facts do not
show that the defendant was aware of the transactions in question, D
is correct.

A is incorrect because such evidence is admissible only if it involved
the same parties. B is incorrect because the witness's statement is not
directly relevant to any statement made by the store manager. Even if
the  20  customers  were  of  the  same  general  size  and  class  as  the
defendant,  evidence  of  their  responses  does  not  tend  to  establish
anything at all about the defendant's intentions or expectations at the
time the contract was formed. C is therefore incorrect.

104. C Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted in that statement. If the plaintiff's statement is offered
to  impeach  the  plaintiff  by  showing  that  he  is  not  worthy  of  belief
because he tells different stories on different days, it is not hearsay.
His  statement  is  therefore  admissible  for  impeachment.  At  common
law,  a  statement  of  a  party  offered  against  that  party  (i.e.,  an
admission)  is  hearsay  but  is  admissible  under  an  exception  to  the
hearsay  rule.  Under  FRE  801(d)(2),  an  admission  is  not  hearsay  at
all.  Either  way,  the  plaintiff's  statement  would  be  admissible  as
substantive  evidence.  C  is  therefore  correct,  and  A,  B,  and  D  are
incorrect.

105.  B  Proof  that  a  witness  was  convicted  of  a  felony  or  a  misdemeanor
involving  dishonesty  may  be  admissible  for 
the  purpose  of
extrinsically  impeaching  the  credibility  of  the  witness,  but  not  if  the
conviction was subsequently reversed for any reason.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  evidence  is  offered  to  impeach  the
manager's  credibility  as  a  witness,  and  this  is  not  related  to  his
employment  by  the  seller.  The  fact  that  the  conviction  was  for  a
misdemeanor  would  not  prevent  its  admission  if  the  misdemeanor
was  one  that  involved  dishonesty.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect  because  if  the  crime  of  which  the  witness  was  convicted
was a felony, it may be admissible without regard to the nature of the

715

felony.

106.  D  A  plaintiff  in  a  negligence  action  is  not  required  to  prove  that  the
defendant  or  its  employee  acted  recklessly  or  committed  any  crime.
The employee's acquittal on the criminal charge or reckless driving is
therefore irrelevant to the issues in the plaintiff's action.

Thus,  even  though  a  court  record  might  be  admissible  as  an  official
written statement, A is incorrect because this record is not relevant. B
is incorrect for two reasons: First, the fact that the employee was not
driving recklessly is not relevant to the plaintiff's claim, and second,
since the burden of proof in a criminal case differs from the burden of
proof in a civil case, acquittal in the criminal court cannot determine
the  issues  in  a  civil  case.  If  a  court  record  were  covered  under  an
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule,  the  unavailability  of  the  person  who
was  the  subject  of  the  proceeding  from  which  the  record  emanated
would not prevent its admission. C is therefore incorrect.

107.  D  A  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons.  First,  a  confidential  marital
communication  is  one  that  takes  place  during  the  course  of  the
marriage,  and  the  couple  was  not  married  at  the  time  of  the  party.
Second, the privilege protects only confidential communications, and
the  driver's  consumption  of  alcohol  at  the  party  would  not  be
determined to be a confidential communication. Although the common
law  spousal  privilege  might  prevent  adverse  testimony  by  a  party's
spouse even though it concerns events that preceded the marriage, B
is incorrect because the privilege does not survive the marriage and
would have terminated with the couple's divorce. C is a fabrication,
with no basis in law. D is therefore correct.

108. A Hearsay is defined as an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  The  statement  of  the
firearms  instructor  is  relevant  to  establish  what  the  defendant
believed,  since  the  defendant  was  present  when  he  said  it  and  it  is
likely that he believed what his instructor said. If offered to prove the
defendant's  state  of  mind  rather  than  the  range  of  the  rifle,  it  is  not
hearsay  because  it  is  not  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  what  was
asserted (i.e., that the rifle is accurate at two miles).

On the other hand, if offered to prove the range of the rifle (i.e., the
matter asserted in the statement), it would be inadmissible as hearsay.
B and C are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because the statement

716

is not hearsay if used to prove the defendant's state of mind.

109.  C  Any  witness  who  is  familiar  with  an  alleged  speaker's  voice  may
authenticate  a  recording  of  that  speaker's  voice.  Since  the  witness
spoke  with  the  defendant  while  they  shared  the  cell,  he  is  now
familiar with the defendant's voice and can properly authenticate it.

A is incorrect because hearsay is defined as an out-of-court assertion
offered  for  the  purpose  of  proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted.
Here,  the  witness  is  offering  his  opinion  regarding  whether  the
speaker on the audio file is the defendant. Importantly, he is not saying
anything  regarding  any  of  the  defendant's  particular  statements.  B  is
incorrect because there is no special prohibition or rule that takes into
account when the witness became familiar with the alleged speaker's
voice.  Therefore,  it  doesn't  matter  that  the  witness  only  became
familiar  with  the  defendant's  voice  after  arrest.  Under  FRE  702,
expert testimony is only appropriate when the subject matter requires
scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge.  The  witness's
identification  of  the  voice  does  not  require  any  of  these  things.
Therefore, D is incorrect.

110. C Any person who recognizes a voice because of experience that he or
she has had with that voice may testify as to the identification of the
speaker. Since the witness had experience with the defendant's voice
in a face-to-face conversation and claims to recognize it as a result,
her testimony identifying the defendant as the speaker is admissible.

A is incorrect because the extent of the experience that a witness had
with  the  voice  he  or  she  is  identifying  goes  to  the  weight  of  the
evidence  rather  than  to  its  admissibility.  B  is  incorrect  because
everyday experience with speech places the identification of a voice
within the capacity of a layperson who has experience with the voice
sufficient  to  recognize  it.  Although  a  witness  may  testify  to  a
distinctive characteristic that helped him or her to recognize a voice,
D is incorrect because he or she is not required to do so.

111. D A lay witness may be permitted to testify to opinions if those opinions
are rationally based on the personal perceptions of the witness. This
requires, of course, that the witness have an adequate opportunity to
perceive that on which his or her opinion is based. Since the witness
did  not  see  the  defendant's  car  before  the  accident,  and  since  tires
may  screech  even  when  vehicles  are  being  operated  at  reasonable

717

speeds, the witness's opinion as to the speed of the defendant's car is
probably  not  based  on  sufficient  opportunity  to  perceive  and  should
be excluded.

A and B are therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because if he or she
had  sufficient  opportunity  to  perceive  and  form  an  opinion,  a
layperson is competent to form and testify to some opinions.

112. D Hearsay is defined as an out-of-court assertion offered for the purpose
of proving the truth of the matter asserted. Since there appears to be
no reason for offering the statement of the unidentified witness except
to prove the truth of the matter that it asserts, it is hearsay. A business
record may be admitted under an exception to the hearsay rule only if
it was made by one who had personal knowledge of the information
recorded or received it from an inherently reliable source. Since the
investigator  did  not  have  personal  knowledge  and  there  is  no
indication  that  the  witness  interviewed  by  the  deceased  investigator
was an inherently reliable source, A is incorrect. An official written
statement may be admitted as an exception to the hearsay rule only as
to information that the public official who recorded it knew of his or
her  own  knowledge.  Since  the  quote  from  the  unidentified  witness
concerns  information  that  the  investigator  did  not  know  of  his  own
knowledge,  B  is  incorrect.  Past  recollection  recorded  is  also
admissible  only  if  the  record  was  made  from  the  recorder's  own
knowledge and if the recorder is present in court to authenticate it. C
is incorrect for these reasons, and because even if it were admissible,
past recollection recorded can be read to the jury but not physically
introduced into evidence.

113.  C  FRE  803(4)  and  (6)  permit  the  introduction  of  hospital  records
containing statements made by the patient for purposes of diagnosis.
Since  the  circumstances  that  led  to  the  injury  are  relevant  to  a
diagnosis of the injury, they may be included in the record offered in
evidence.

A and B are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect since the statements in
the record were not opinion and therefore do not require the testimony
of experts.

114.  A  Character  evidence  is  not  ordinarily  admissible  for  the  purpose  of
proving a person's conduct on a particular occasion. Thus, if evidence
of  the  defendant's  character  is  offered  to  prove  anything  about  his

718

conduct  on  the  occasion  of  the  incident  in  question,  it  is  not
admissible.

B is incorrect because a witness who testifies to a person's reputation
is not required to know that person or to have any personal opinion
about  him.  C  is  applicable  only  in  criminal  prosecutions.  If  the
evidence  were  allowed  for  the  purpose  stated  in  D,  it  would  be  to
prove  that  the  defendant  did  not  strike  the  plaintiff  without
justification. D is therefore incorrect for the same reasons that make
A correct.

115.  A  Under  FRE  803(2),  a  statement  is  admissible  under  the  excited
utterance exception to the hearsay rule if it was about a startling event
and  made  while  under  the  stress  of  excitement  resulting  from  that
event. The FRE further provide that the statement may be admissible
even if the identity of the declarant is unknown.

B  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  an  excited
utterance is admissible as a hearsay exception.

116.  B  Physical  illustrations  of  a  witness's  testimony  are  admissible  to
illustrate  that  testimony  if  the  witness  testifies  from  personal
knowledge  that  the  illustration  is  a  fair  representation  of  what  it
purports  to  be.  Since  the  witness  testified  from  her  own  knowledge
that the chart was an accurate representation of the dates on which her
company had done business with the defendant, it may be admitted for
that purpose.

FRE  803(6)  permits  the  admission  of  business  records  if  they  were
kept in the regular course of business and made while the transaction
recorded  was  fresh  in  the  entrant's  mind  regarding  facts  within  her
personal  knowledge  or  from  an  inherently  reliable  source.  This
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  applies  only  to  the  record  itself,
however, and not to any summary of it. A is therefore incorrect. Under
the  best  evidence  rule,  secondary  evidence  of  a  writing  is  not
admissible to prove the terms of the writing unless the original or a
qualified duplicate is shown to be unavailable. However, this rule is
applicable only when the terms of the writing are in dispute. Since the
contents  of  the  plaintiff's  files  are  not  in  dispute,  the  best  evidence
rule is inapplicable. Introduction of the chart might be said to place
the  contents  of  the  chart  in  issue.  Since  the  chart  is  an  original,
however, the best evidence rule does not exclude it. C is incorrect for

719

these  reasons.  Materials  used  by  a  witness  to  refresh  his  or  her
recollection while he or she is testifying must be shown to opposing
counsel and marked for identification. The court may also require the
production  of  materials  that  were  used  to  refresh  a  witness'
recollection before trial. D is incorrect, however, because FRE 612
leaves this requirement to the court's discretion.

117. C Unless excluded by a rule of law, all evidence is admissible that tends
to  prove  or  disprove  a  fact  in  issue.  The  robber's  identification  is
obviously  a  fact  in  issue.  Since  the  guard's  testimony  tends  to
establish  that  at  the  time  of  his  arrest,  the  defendant's  physical
appearance  fit  the  description  of  the  robber  given  by  witnesses,  her
testimony  is  admissible  for  the  purpose  of  explaining  why  the
defendant no longer has bushy red hair.

A  rule  of  evidence  prohibits  impeachment  of  a  witness  by  extrinsic
evidence of a collateral matter. A is incorrect, however, because the
guard's  testimony  is  not  offered  for  the  purpose  of  impeaching  the
defendant  and  because  the  identity  of  the  robber  is  not  a  collateral
matter.  The  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  against  self-incrimination
protects  a  person  from  being  compelled  to  give  evidence  that  might
be used against him or her in a criminal proceeding. B  is  incorrect,
however,  because  the  privilege  relates  only  to  testimonial  evidence
and  does  not  prevent  another  from  testifying  to  what  he  or  she  has
seen  the  defendant  do.  An  admission  by  conduct  occurs  when  a
defendant  does  some  act  that  logically  indicates  that  he  or  she
believes  himself  or  herself  to  be  guilty.  Although  the  defendant's
attempt to change his appearance might suggest such a conclusion, the
fact that there are many other legitimate reasons for the defendant to
shave his head makes this a weak argument in this case. D is therefore
incorrect.

118. A Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter  asserted  in  that  statement.  If  the  former  president's  statement
was offered to prove that the president was permitted to raise his own
salary  (i.e.,  the  matter  asserted),  it  would  be  hearsay.  Since  the
defendant's defense is that he believed the union rules permitted him
to act as he did, evidence of his state of mind is material. Since what
he heard from the former president is likely to have affected his state
of mind, the former president's testimony is relevant to the defendant's
state  of  mind.  Thus,  it  is  not  hearsay  if  offered  to  prove  what  the

720

defendant  thought,  rather  than  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  former
president's statement (i.e., that the defendant was entitled to raise his
own salary).

B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because the former president
is not telling the jury his opinion but rather testifying that he stated that
opinion  in  a  conversation  that  he  had  with  the  defendant.  This  is
offered not to prove that his opinion was correct but to establish the
defendant's state of mind as a result of hearing the former president's
opinion.  An  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the
matter asserted in that statement is inadmissible as hearsay even if the
person who made that statement testifies to it himself or herself. D is
therefore incorrect.

119. A  Under  FRE  803(2),  an  excited  utterance  is  a  statement  relating  to  a
startling  event  made  while  the  declarant  was  under  the  stress  of
excitement caused by that event, and it is admissible as an exception
to the hearsay rule.

B is therefore incorrect. Statements of a declarant's then-existing state
of  mind  also  fall  under  FRE  803(3)'s  hearsay  exception  for
descriptions of the declarant's intention, attitude, emotional condition,
or  mental  feeling.  C  is  incorrect,  however,  because  although  “I'm
dying” might qualify as a declaration of the plaintiff's state of mind, “I
had the green light in my favor” does not, since it does not describe
her mental state. D is incorrect for two reasons: First, the plaintiff's
statement  said  nothing  about  her  past  mental  state,  and  second,  FRE
803(3) permits declarations of past state of mind to be admitted only
in certain will cases.

120.  C  Although  evidence  of  unconvicted  bad  acts  is  inadmissible  for  the
purpose  of  proving  bad  character,  if  relevant,  it  may  be  admissible
for the purpose of attacking a witness's credibility by showing bias.
An  acquittal  of  the  defendant  would  affect  the  prosecution  of  the
witness  on  the  charge  of  being  his  accessory.  Thus,  the  pending
prosecution  against  the  witness  is  relevant  evidence  of  bias  and  is
admissible for impeachment purposes.

A is therefore incorrect. The bias of a witness is always material to
his  or  her  credibility.  For  this  reason,  evidence  of  such  bias  is
admissible even though it may relate to a matter that is not material to
the  charge  against  the  person  on  trial.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is

721

incorrect because although it may be used to establish bias, extrinsic
evidence of unconvicted bad acts is not admissible for the purpose of
proving that a witness has a bad or dishonest character.

121. D For a witness to be competent, he or she must simply have personal
knowledge of the matter and be willing and able to testify truthfully.
Here,  the  plaintiff  saw  the  television  broadcast,  and  nothing  in  the
question implies he would be unable to tell the truth.

A is incorrect because the fact a recording of the show likely exists
would  not  preclude  the  plaintiff's  oral  testimony  regarding  the
defendant's  defamatory  statements.  B  is  incorrect  because  the
defendant's  statement  is  not  an  out-of-court  statement  being  used  to
prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted.  Even  if  the  defamatory
statement itself is untrue, it is still legally actionable simply because
it  was  made.  C  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication  the
defendant  is  unavailable  to  testify,  which  is  required  under  the  rule
regarding declarations against interest.

122.  C  To  get  the  whole  story,  a  direct  examiner  or  cross-examiner  may
attempt  to  refresh  a  witness's  present  recollection  by  showing  the
witness's physical objects or writings. If the purpose is to refresh the
witness's recollection (rather than to expose the item to the jury), any
item may be used, so long as it is first shown to opposing counsel and
marked as an exhibit (i.e., for identification). Before refreshing items
can  be  used,  however,  the  witness  must  have  exhausted  his  or  her
unrefreshed  memory.  Since  the  witness  stated  that  he  could  not
remember  whether  he  shouted  (i.e.,  that  his  present  memory  was
exhausted),  the  prosecutor  was  permitted  to  attempt  to  refresh  his
recollection in the manner described.

Since  the  report  was  used  only  to  refresh  the  witness's  recollection
but  was  not  itself  being  used  to  prove  anything,  it  need  not  be
admitted,  admissible,  or  offered  into  evidence.  A,  B,  and  D  are
therefore incorrect.

123.  C  In  some  jurisdictions,  a  learned  treatise  can  be  used  on  the  cross-
examination of an expert witness only if the witness relied upon that
treatise  in  forming  his  or  her  opinion.  FRE  803(18)  dispenses  with
that  requirement,  however,  making  the  contents  of  a  learned  treatise
an exception to the hearsay rule to the extent that they are called to the
attention of a witness during cross-examination. This provision makes
portions  of  learned  treatises  on  medicine  admissible  both  for

722

impeachment and as substantive evidence. (Note: Such portions may
be  read  aloud,  but  a  copy  may  not  be  physically  admitted  into
evidence.)

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  they  are  under-inclusive.  D  is
incorrect  because  the  above  section  makes  the  contents  of  a  learned
treatise an exception to the hearsay rule.

124.  B  Under  FRE  409,  offers  to  pay  or  actual  payments  of  medical  or
the  purposes  of  proving
inadmissible  for 
hospital  bills  are 
negligence,  liability,  or  the  value  of  a  claim.  Although  there  are
purposes  for  which  such  evidence  might  be  admissible,  none  are
listed among the options.

A  is  incorrect  because  FRE  409  excludes  evidence  of  payment  of
hospital  bills  whether  or  not  such  payments  are  part  of  an  offer  of
compromise. C is incorrect for this reason, and because a statement
that is otherwise admissible may remain admissible even though it is
inseparable from a statement about insurance. D is incorrect because
FRE  409  specifically  excludes  such  evidence  if  it  is  offered  for  the
purpose of establishing fault.

125. C  It  is  generally  understood  that  a  lay  witness  may  testify  to  opinions
regarding matters within the contemplation of the ordinary person so
long  as  the  opinion  is  rationally  based  on  the  witness's  personal
perception.  For  an  opinion  to  be  rationally  based  on  the  witness's
personal perception, however, it is necessary to show that the witness
had  sufficient  opportunity  to  perceive  the  matter  about  which  he  or
she  formed  an  opinion.  Since  the  witness  testified  that  she  first  saw
the defendant's car just before it struck the plaintiff, her opportunity to
perceive was probably not adequate to support her opinion. While it
is not certain that a court would sustain the objection, the argument in
C is the only one listed that could possibly support the objection.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  ordinary  driver  is  competent  to  form  an
opinion  regarding  the  speed  of  a  moving  vehicle.  FRE  704
specifically  provides  that  if  opinion  testimony  is  otherwise  not
objectionable,  it  is  not  objectionable  simply  because  it  concerns  an
ultimate  issue  to  be  determined  by  the  trier  of  fact.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. It is sometimes said that witnesses must testify to facts, and
inferences are to be drawn by the jury. For this reason, lay opinions
are usually not admissible if it would be reasonably practical for the

723

witness to state the separate facts that caused him or her to form that
opinion  so  that  the  jury  could  draw  whatever  inferences  it  deems
proper. On the other hand, if it is not reasonably practical to express
the  separate  factors  that  caused  the  witness  to  form  a  particular
opinion, the witness may be permitted to state the opinion that he or
she  formed.  Since  the  factors  that  go  into  an  opinion  regarding  the
speed of a moving vehicle cannot ordinarily be expressed as separate
facts, a witness who is competent to form an opinion as to that speed
will be permitted to express that opinion. D is therefore incorrect.

126. D A cross-examiner is given broad leeway in attempting to impeach a
witness  intrinsically  (i.e.,  by  eliciting  testimony  from  that  very
witness). In general, a cross-examination question is proper if it has a
logical tendency to discredit the testimony of the witness being cross-
examined. A witness thus may be questioned about any facts that tend
to show that the nature of his or her relationship to a party gives him
or  her  a  bias  (i.e.,  motive  to  be  less  than  objective  in  his  or  her
testimony).  Since  the  defendant's  accusation  that  the  witness  was
dishonest would be likely to result in making the witness angry at the
defendant  and  therefore  biased,  the  question  is  proper  and  the
objection should be overruled.

Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted in that statement. If the defendant's statement that the
witness  was  dishonest  were  offered  to  prove  that  the  witness  was
dishonest, it would be hearsay. Since it is offered for another purpose
(i.e., to show that the witness is biased), however, it is not hearsay. A
is therefore incorrect. An admission is a declaration by a party that is
offered  against  that  party.  Since  the  defendant's  declaration  that  the
witness was dishonest would be offered in favor of the defendant, it
is not an admission. B is therefore incorrect. Extrinsic impeachment
is evidence tending to impeach a witness that does not come from that
witness's  own  testimony.  Since  the  evidence  that  would  tend  to
impeach the witness is sought from the witness himself, it cannot be
called “extrinsic.” C is therefore incorrect.

127.  B  In  general,  evidence  of  a  defendant's  character  or  disposition  is
inadmissible  for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  he  or  she  acted  in  a
particular  way  on  a  particular  occasion.  An  exception  is  made,
however,  for  evidence  that  shows  a  definite,  particular,  and  strong
inference  that  the  defendant  did  the  precise  act  charged.  Included  in

724

this exception is evidence tending to establish that the defendant uses
a  distinctive  modus  operandus  (MO),  or  method  of  operation.  For
this  reason,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  previously  smuggled  cocaine
using  a  brass  statue  with  a  false  bottom  could  be  admissible.
Although  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  admit  the  evidence  for
this  purpose,  B  is  the  only  answer  listed  that  could  possibly  be
correct.

FRE  406  permits  evidence  of  habit  to  be  used  as  circumstantial
evidence  that  on  a  particular  occasion,  the  defendant's  conduct  was
consistent  with  his  or  her  habit.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because
habit  evidence  requires  a  showing  that  the  actor  in  question
consistently acts in a particular way, and one prior experience is not
sufficient  to  establish  a  habit.  Although  evidence  of  a  defendant's
previous  conduct  is  inadmissible  if  offered  against  him  or  her  for
some purposes, it may be admissible if offered against him or her for
others. C is thus incorrect because it is over-inclusive. Evidence of a
prior  conviction  is  not  usually  admissible  for  the  purpose  of
impeaching  a  witness  if  the  conviction  occurred  more  than  10  years
prior  to  the  trial  at  which  it  is  offered.  D  is  incorrect,  however,
because  the  defendant's  prior  conviction  is  not  being  offered  to
impeach his credibility but rather to establish a distinctive MO.

128.  C  Evidence  of  a  scientific  test  or  experiment  is  admissible  only  if  a
foundation  is  laid  that  indicates  the  substantial  identity  of  material
conditions. Thus, if the test conditions were not substantially the same
as the conditions that existed at the time of the accident, evidence of
the test and its results should be excluded.

A  is  incorrect  because  a  film  may  be  authenticated  by  anyone  who
knows  it  to  be  an  accurate  representation  of  what  it  purports  to  be.
The best evidence rule provides that when the contents of a document
are in dispute, secondary evidence is not admissible in the absence of
a showing that the original or a qualified duplicate is not available.
Since there is no dispute about the contents of any document, the best
evidence rule is not applicable, and B is incorrect. D is incorrect for
the reasons given above.

129. D Evidence of past crimes might be admissible to impeach a witness's
credibility but never solely for the purpose of showing that a criminal
defendant  had  a  disposition  to  commit  a  particular  kind  of  crime.
Since  there  is  no  indication  that  the  defendant  testified,  there  is  no

725

reason to impeach his credibility.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

130. C Under FRE 803, records “kept in the course of a regularly conducted
business activity” can be admitted if they are made at or near the time
of the event, by a person with knowledge, who makes the record as a
regular  practice,  and  there  is  no  indication  of  the  record's
untrustworthiness. Here, the manager testified he regularly made notes
of client protests as part of his job, and there is no indication in the
facts that the file is untrustworthy. Therefore, C is the best answer. B
is incorrect because FRE 803(7) allows business records to be used
to prove the nonoccurrence of an event. Because this is an exception
to the hearsay rule, A is incorrect.

D is incorrect because the fact the manager used the file to refresh his
recollection would not make the file admissible evidence.

131. B Prior inconsistent statements made by a witness may be used to attack
that witness's testimony because those statements tend to show that the
witness's  testimony  is  not  believable.  Therefore,  C  is  incorrect.
However,  since  the  second  witness's  statement  was  not  made  under
oath and does not invoke any hearsay exception, it can only be used
for  impeachment  and  not  to  prove  that  the  defendant  was  texting.
Therefore, A is incorrect.

D is incorrect because FRE 607 allows the credibility of a witness to
be attacked by any party.

132.  C  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  assertion  offered  for  the  purpose  of
proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted.  Thus,  if  the  witness's
statement is being offered to prove a man killed the victim instead of
the  female  defendant,  it  is  inadmissible  hearsay.  Therefore,  A  is
incorrect.

A declaration against interest is a statement made by an unavailable
declarant that is against the declarant's interest when made. This is an
exception to the hearsay rule. Here, there is no indication the witness
is not available. Therefore, B is incorrect. D is incorrect because the
issue here is that the statement is hearsay, not that it might be unfairly
prejudicial.
