
QUESTIONS
_____________________________
CRIMINAL LAW

CRIMINAL LAW
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Numbers refer to Question Numbers

I. Homicide
     A. Intended killings 6, 19, 26, 37, 40, 41, 55, 56, 64, 66, 71, 83, 90,

91, 96, 101, 109, 117, 126

          1. Premeditation — deliberation 6, 37, 54, 61, 93, 112
          2. Provocation 33, 37, 55, 64, 66
     B. Unintended killings 6, 28, 33, 85, 132

          1. Intent to injure 11, 33, 41, 56, 64, 66,107, 137
          2. Reckless and negligent killings 22, 23, 28, 40, 44, 56, 64, 69,

83, 93, 111, 117, 126

          3. Felony-murder 21, 45, 56, 70, 85, 97, 110, 125
          4. Misdemeanor-manslaughter 22, 40, 62, 69, 124

II. Other crimes
     A. Theft

          1. Larceny 5, 7, 15, 16, 27, 32, 38, 43, 47, 48, 71, 74, 100, 113,

115, 130

          2. Embezzlement 7, 32, 47, 74, 115
          3. False pretenses 29, 47

     B. Receiving stolen goods 15, 72, 80, 87, 129, 139
     C. Robbery 45, 47, 63, 70, 71, 102, 114, 115, 122, 129, 133
     D. Burglary 27, 34, 43, 44, 48, 51, 88
     E. Assault and battery 20, 31, 41, 42, 95, 117, 126
     F. Rape; statutory rape 3, 8, 24, 42, 45, 49, 55, 71, 104, 105, 112
     G. Kidnapping 45, 59, 86, 118
     H. Arson 10, 16, 53, 68, 85, 88, 120, 128, 130

444

III. Inchoate crimes; parties
     A. Inchoate offenses

          1. Attempts 7, 8, 10, 12, 29, 43, 44, 51, 61, 71, 83, 84, 92, 96, 99,

102, 107, 126, 127, 139

          2. Conspiracy 5, 8, 9, 19, 27, 31, 63, 85, 87, 97, 102, 105, 109,

128, 133, 135, 138, 139, 140

          3. Solicitation 16, 49

     B. Parties to crime 8, 9, 19, 27, 31, 38, 39, 42, 46, 53, 63, 78, 92, 97,
102, 105, 106, 109, 113, 115, 116, 120,131, 133, 135, 138, 139, 140

IV. General principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22, 23, 38, 53, 61, 68,

74, 87, 111, 115, 120, 132

     A. State of mind 90

          1. Required mental state 3, 8, 11, 25, 27, 34, 35, 39, 43, 44, 55, 58,
59, 68, 71, 83, 88, 93, 95, 99, 104, 105, 107, 113, 116, 122, 126,
130, 135

          2. Strict liability 8, 92, 99, 104, 105, 131
          3. Mistake of fact or law 8, 10, 12, 29, 30, 51, 72, 75, 92, 93, 96,

105, 129,131, 135, 139, 140

     B. Responsibility

          1. Insanity 54, 56, 90, 117
          2. Intoxication 3, 55, 71, 95, 104

     C. Causation 23, 25, 27, 56, 62, 83, 101, 111, 113, 126
     D. Justification 3, 13, 25, 26, 30, 33, 41, 45, 58, 64, 68, 80, 83, 84, 87,

96, 104, 108, 112, 117, 126, 127, 129, 139

V. Constitutional protection of accused persons
     A. Arrest, search and seizure 1, 2, 4, 14, 18, 36, 50, 52, 57, 60, 67,

73, 77, 81, 87, 91, 98, 103, 119, 121, 123, 129, 134
     B. Confessions 17, 67, 73, 77, 79, 89, 98, 108, 123, 134, 136
     C. Lineups and other forms of identification 13, 79
     D. Right to counsel 13, 17, 79, 98, 134, 136
     E. Double jeopardy 20, 60, 82, 94

CRIMINAL LAW QUESTIONS

1. The public prosecutor had information that unlawful gambling

activities were being conducted at a tavern known as the Second
Bedroom on Main Street. She obtained a warrant for the search of the
Second Bedroom by presenting an affidavit that stated that she had

445

received information regarding the illegal activities from an informant
who had observed the reported activities while present at the tavern.
The affidavit stated that the informant frequently gave information to
the police and prosecutor and that the information received from the
informant in the past had always been found to be accurate. It did not
give the name of the informant, however, because it stated that his
anonymity needed to be preserved both for his own protection and to
continue his effectiveness as an informant.

The warrant that was issued authorized the search of “the premises
known as the Second Bedroom and located at 481 Chambers Street”
and of “all persons in said premises at the time of the execution of the
warrant who are found to be in possession of gambling records.”
There was a furniture store known as the Second Bedroom located at
481 Chambers Street, but the officers assigned to execute the warrant
went to the Second Bedroom tavern on Main Street. Upon searching
the premises, they found gambling records in a cash drawer located
behind the bar.

The owner of the tavern was charged with violating the state's
gambling law. He moved to suppress the use of gambling records
found in the cash drawer. His most effective argument in support of
that motion is that

(A) the affidavit submitted in support of the application for the warrant

was based entirely on hearsay.

(B) the affidavit submitted in support of the application for the warrant

did not identify the informant.

(C) the information contained in the affidavit submitted in support of the

application for the warrant was uncorroborated.

(D) the information contained in the affidavit submitted in support of
the application for the warrant did not properly identify the
defendant's premises.

2. The defendant checked her suitcase when she made a cross-country

airplane flight. Police officers had a warrant for the defendant's arrest.
When the plane landed, a police dog that was trained to recognize the
smell of marijuana was allowed to sniff all checked baggage as part of
a routine inspection procedure. Upon sniffing the defendant's bag, the
dog gave signs that it had been trained to give when it recognized the

446

smell of marijuana. The defendant was allowed to claim the suitcase
when she got off the plane. After she claimed it, a police officer
arrested her for possession of a dangerous drug as she carried the
suitcase through the airport. The arresting officer then searched the
suitcase and found a package of marijuana.

After her conviction for drug possession, the defendant made a timely
appeal to suppress the use of the marijuana as evidence against her.
The trial court had found that the arresting officer had probable cause
to believe she was in possession of marijuana. Should the motion be
granted?

(A) Yes, because allowing the dog to sniff the defendant's luggage was

an unreasonable search.

(B) No, because the arresting officer had a warrant for the defendant's

arrest.

(C) No, because the possibility of airline hijacking makes the routine

examination of passengers' luggage necessary to protect the public
against a clear and present danger.

(D) No, because when the defendant was arrested, the arresting officer
had probable cause to believe that she was in possession of
marijuana.

3. The defendant met the victim in a bar where both were drinking.

Because the defendant was too drunk to drive, the victim offered him a
ride home. In the victim's car, the defendant put his arms around the
victim and attempted to kiss her. The victim told him that she wasn't
interested and tried to push him away, but the defendant overpowered
her and succeeded in having sexual intercourse with her. The victim
was 17 years old.

The defendant was charged with forcible rape under the common law.
If only one of the following facts or interferences were true, which
would be most likely to lead to the defendant's acquittal on that
charge?

(A) The defendant was so drunk that he believed the victim was willing

to have sexual intercourse with him.

(B) The defendant was so drunk that he did not realize that he was

engaging in sexual intercourse.

447

(C) The victim was so drunk that she did not realize that the defendant

was engaging in sexual intercourse with her.

(D) The victim was so drunk that immediately after intercourse began,
she forgot who the defendant was and believed him to be her
husband.

4. In which of the following fact patterns is the defendant's motion to

suppress the evidence most likely to be granted?

(A) The defendant was riding in a car owned by his friend. Police

stopped the car and asked to see the friend's driver's license. After
the friend showed it to them, they asked his permission to search
the car. The friend said, “Sure, go ahead.” Upon searching under
the seat in which the defendant had been sitting, the police found a
package of heroin, which was offered at the defendant's trial for
illegally possessing narcotics.

(B) The defendant was staying at a hotel, but he was two weeks behind
on his room charges. The hotel desk clerk permitted the police to
search the defendant's room while he was out. Upon doing so, the
police found narcotics, and the defendant was subsequently
charged with possession.

(C) The defendant was arrested for driving while intoxicated. After he
was taken to jail, his car was towed to the police auto pound.
There, a police officer taking inventory of the car's contents found a
weapon in the car that had been used in the commission of a crime
with which the defendant was subsequently charged.

(D) While the defendant was driving, police officers stopped him for

going through a red light. A routine check of his license through the
police department computer indicated that a bench warrant had
been issued for his arrest for failing to appear in connection with
four parking tickets that had been issued to vehicles registered to
him. The officers advised him that he was under arrest. Although
they did not handcuff him, they ordered him to empty his pockets
onto the hood of the police car. A marijuana cigarette that was in
one of his pockets was subsequently offered against him at his trial
for possession of a controlled substance.

5. The defendant had lost her job and needed to make some money

quickly. While visiting a local tavern, she ran into an old friend. When
the defendant told the friend about her financial problems, the friend

448

pointed to an expensive-looking coat that was hanging on a coat rack
and said, “Why don't you steal that coat? It looks like you should be
able to sell it for at least $100.” Because the defendant said that she
was afraid the owner of the coat would see her, the friend agreed to
sing in a loud voice to create a diversion so that the defendant could
steal the coat while everyone was watching the friend. As soon as the
friend began to sing, the defendant took the coat from the coat rack and
ran from the tavern. In fact, the coat actually belonged to the friend,
who had been joking when he told the defendant to steal it.

Of which of the following crimes may the defendant be properly
convicted?

(A) Larceny only.

(B) Conspiracy only.

(C) Larceny and conspiracy.

(D) Neither larceny nor conspiracy.

6. The defendant knew that his neighbor, the victim, had a weak heart and
that the victim had suffered several heart attacks in the past. Because
he was angry at the victim, the defendant decided to try to frighten him
into another heart attack. He watched the victim's house, and when he
saw the victim leaving through the front door, he ran toward him
shouting, “Look out! Look out! The sky is falling!” Although the
defendant was not sure that this would kill the victim, he hoped it
would. When the victim saw the defendant running toward him
shouting, he became frightened, had a heart attack, and died on the spot.

The jurisdiction has statutes that define first degree murder as “the
deliberate and premeditated killing of a human being,” and second
degree murder as “any unlawful killing of a human being with malice
aforethought, except for a killing that constitutes first degree murder.”
In addition, its statutes adopt common law definitions of voluntary and
involuntary manslaughter.

Which of the following is the most serious crime of which the
defendant can properly be convicted?

(A) First degree murder.

(B) Second degree murder.

449

(C) Voluntary manslaughter.

(D) Involuntary manslaughter.

7. The defendant was having dinner in a restaurant with his employer, the
victim, when the victim left the table to go to the restroom. As the
victim walked away, the defendant noticed that the victim's wristwatch
had fallen off his wrist onto the table. Since it looked like a rather
valuable watch, the defendant decided to steal it. Picking up the watch,
he put it into his pocket. A few moments later, he began to feel guilty
about stealing from his employer, so when the victim returned to the
table, the defendant handed him the watch and said, “Here, you
dropped this, and I put it into my pocket for safekeeping.”

Which is the most serious crime of which the defendant can be
properly convicted?

(A) Larceny.

(B) Attempted larceny.

(C) Embezzlement.

(D) No crime.

8. A 15-year-old girl undressed a 15-year-old boy and attempted to have
sexual intercourse with him. Although at first the boy was unwilling to
have intercourse, the girl gave him marijuana to smoke until he became
so intoxicated that he was willing to try. By then, however, his
intoxication made him physically unable to perform. A statute in the
jurisdiction provides that “A person is guilty of rape in the third degree
when, being 17 years of age or more, he or she engages in sexual
intercourse with a person under the age of 16 years.”

If the girl is charged with attempting to commit rape in the third degree
as a result of her attempt to have intercourse with the boy, she should
be found

(A) guilty, because she overcame his resistance by the use of an
intoxicating substance and would have completed the act of
intercourse but for the boy's physical inability to perform.

(B) guilty, because the boy was under the legal age of consent.

(C) not guilty, because the girl was under the age of 17.

450

(D) not guilty, because the girl was a female.

9. A store owner wanted to erect a new storage building so that he could
expand his business of selling animal food and veterinary supplies. He
was afraid, however, that the building department would not issue him
a permit to begin construction. A building department clerk said that
she would make a false entry in the official records to indicate that a
permit had already been issued if the store owner would pay her $500.
The store owner agreed and said that he would bring the money the
following day. The next day, however, when the store owner went to
the clerk's office with $500, he was told that she had been fired.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “Any person who shall give
or accept a fee not authorized by law as consideration for the act of
any public employee is guilty of bribery, a felony. Any person who
shall offer to commit a bribery is guilty of bribery in the second
degree, a felony.”

If the jurisdiction applies the common law definition of conspiracy, of
which of the following crimes can the clerk properly be convicted?

(A) Bribery in the second degree only.

(B) Conspiracy to commit bribery only.

(C) Bribery in the second degree or conspiracy to commit bribery, but

not both.

(D) Bribery in the second degree and conspiracy to commit bribery.

10. The defendant called her attorney and asked whether it would be a

crime to burn down her own home. The attorney said that arson was
defined as the intentional burning of any dwelling and that arson was a
serious crime. In fact, the defendant's attorney was incorrect: The
applicable statute in the jurisdiction defines arson as “the intentional
burning of the dwelling of another.” Believing what the attorney told
her, however, the defendant burned down her own home for the
purpose of collecting the proceeds of her fire insurance policy.

If the defendant is charged with attempted arson, she should be found

(A) guilty, because a mistake of fact does not prevent a person from

being guilty of a criminal attempt.

(B) guilty, because her mistake of law resulted from reasonable

451

reliance on the advice of an attorney.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to burn the dwelling

of another.

(D) not guilty, because the defendant's attempt is subsumed in the

substantive crime of insurance fraud.

11. Angry because her coworker had insulted her, the defendant decided to
get revenge. Because she worked for an exterminator, the defendant
had access to cans of a poison gas that was often used to kill termites
and other insects. She did not want to kill the coworker, so she
carefully read the user manual supplied by the manufacturer. The
manual said that the gas was not fatal to human beings, but that
exposure to it could cause serious ailments, including blindness and
permanent respiratory irritation. When she was sure that no one would
see her, the defendant brought a can of the gas to the parking lot and
released the poison gas into the coworker's car. At lunchtime, the
coworker and his friend sat together in the coworker's car. As a result
of their exposure to the gas in the car, the friend died, and the coworker
became so ill that he was hospitalized for over a month.

If the defendant is charged with the murder of the friend, she should be
found

(A) guilty, because the friend's death resulted from an act that the

defendant performed with the intent to cause great bodily harm to a
human being.

(B) guilty, because the use of poison gas is an inherently dangerous

activity.

(C) not guilty, because she did not know that the friend would be

exposed to the poison gas.

(D) not guilty, because she did not intend to cause the death of any

person.

12. The defendant was charged with the attempted murder of the victim. If
only one of the following facts or inferences were true, which would
be most likely to result in an acquittal?

(A) The victim was already dead when the defendant shot him, although

the defendant believed him to be alive.

(B) The victim was alive when the defendant shot him, although the

452

defendant believed that the victim was already dead.

(C) The defendant's gun was unloaded when he aimed it at the victim
and pulled the trigger, although the defendant believed it to be
loaded.

(D) Intending to poison the victim, the defendant put a harmless

substance into the victim's drink, although the defendant believed
that the substance was lethal.

13. The defendant had been arraigned on a charge of burglarizing the home
of the victim. The day before the defendant's trial, the defendant was
told that he was to appear in a lineup. The defendant asked for his
lawyer to be present at the lineup but was told that he had no right to
his lawyer's presence. When he refused to appear in the lineup, the
officers said “Things will go bad for you if you refuse.” The defendant
then appeared in the lineup. There were five other men in the lineup,
and all were of approximately the same height, weight, and skin color
as the defendant.

At the defendant's trial, the victim testified that she had been returning
home on the night of the burglary when she saw a man running from her
house. She said that she recognized the defendant as the man whom she
had identified as the burglar at a lineup the day before.

If the defendant's attorney makes a timely objection to the
identification made by the victim, the court should

(A) sustain the objection, because the defendant was entitled to have

his attorney present at the lineup.

(B) sustain the objection, because the defendant's refusal to participate

in the lineup was overcome by force or the threat of force.

(C) overrule the objection, because there were five other men in the

lineup and all were of approximately the same height, weight, and
skin color as the defendant.

(D) overrule the objection, because any taint connected with the lineup

procedure has been purged by the victim's subsequent re-
identification of the defendant in the courtroom.

14. Because many neighborhood residents had been complaining about the
exploitation of tenants by absentee landlords and about the lack of law
enforcement in their poor neighborhood, the City Attorney instituted a

453

campaign of neighborhood reform. The City Attorney obtained a series
of warrants for inspection of buildings in the neighborhood. He
accomplished this by presenting an affidavit that stated that many health
and safety violations had been observed in buildings located in the
neighborhood by police and building inspectors traveling through the
neighborhood. Pursuant to the warrants, police officers and building
inspectors were ordered to inspect certain buildings. As a result, an
apartment building owned by the defendant was found to have more
than 20 violations of the city's building code. The defendant was
prosecuted under a state law that made it a felony for any landlord to
willfully fail to correct health and safety violations in a building that he
or she owned.

If the defendant moves to suppress the evidence against him that was
obtained as a result of the inspection of his building, his motion should
be

(A) granted, because the inspections were part of a general scheme to

enforce the law in a particular neighborhood only.

(B) denied, because the affidavit that was submitted in support of the
request for a warrant specifically stated that violations had been
observed in the defendant's building.

(C) denied, because no warrant is needed to inspect buildings for

health or safety violations.

(D) denied, because there was probable cause to believe that violations

would be found in some of the buildings.

15. On the defendant's birthday, his friend gave him a new television as a
gift. The following day, when the defendant opened the box and began
using the television, he noticed that there was no warranty document
with it. The defendant phoned his friend and asked the friend for the
missing warranty document. The friend said, “I can't give it to you
because the television was stolen.” The defendant kept the television
and continued using it.

The defendant was guilty of

(A) receiving stolen property only.

(B) larceny only.

(C) receiving stolen property and larceny.

454

(D) no crime.

16. In which of the following fact situations is the defendant most likely to

be convicted of the crime charged? Assume that the jurisdiction
applies the common law definition of all crimes.

(A) The defendant offered an acquaintance $1,000 to burn down the
defendant's factory, but the acquaintance refused. The defendant
was charged with solicitation to commit arson.

(B) The defendant deliberately burned down his home and collected the
proceeds of his fire insurance policy. The defendant was charged
with larceny by trick.

(C) The defendant deliberately burned down the victim's store because
he wanted to put the victim out of business. The defendant was
charged with arson.

(D) The defendant attempted to burn down his neighbor's house because
he disliked his neighbor. He poured gasoline on the door of the
house and threw a match onto it. The flames had just charred the
door when it started to rain and the fire went out. The defendant
was charged with arson.

17. The defendant was arrested and driven to police headquarters. A
police officer gave the defendant his Miranda warnings and the
defendant said he wanted to speak with his lawyer before talking to
anyone. Just then, the police officer was called away to help deal with
a drunken man that was fighting in one of the holding cells. An hour
later, another officer leaned in the room asked the defendant, “Do you
need anything?” The defendant replied, “Yeah — a good lawyer
because everyone knows I stabbed that guy.”

At trial, the defendant filed a motion to prevent the introduction of his
statement. How should the court rule?

(A) The court should deny the motion, because the defendant

volunteered the statement.

(B) The court should deny the motion, because there was no indication

the delay in contacting the lawyer was intentional.

(C) The court should grant the motion, because the statement was the

product of an unlawful “two-step” interrogation.

(D) The court should grant the motion, because the defendant's request

455

for an attorney should have been granted immediately.

18. A small but valuable piece of jewel-encrusted statuary had been stolen
from an antiques shop, and all foot patrol officers in the area were
notified by walkie-talkie to look for the thief. When an officer saw the
defendant running down the street away from the direction of the
antiques shop, she became suspicious of him. The officer stopped the
defendant and asked him his name and his reason for running down the
street. When the defendant said, “Just jogging,” the officer ordered him
to raise his hands and then frisked him to see if he was in possession of
the stolen statue. She felt a hard object in his pocket and, believing it to
be the statue, reached inside. The object that she felt turned out to be a
pistol, for which the defendant did not have a permit as required by
law.

Prior to the defendant's trial on the charge of unlawfully possessing a
concealed weapon, he moved to suppress the use of the pistol. His
motion should be

(A) granted, because it was obtained as the result of an unlawful

search.

(B) granted, because it was not the item that the officer was seeking

when she frisked him.

(C) denied, because the officer reasonably suspected him of stealing the

statue.

(D) denied, because it was discovered as part of a valid pat-down

search.

19. A boy overheard two other boys talking about killing the victim by

hiding his asthma medicine.

The boy hoped that the other boys' plan would succeed. He decided to
help them without saying anything about it. Going into the victim's
room, the boy searched until he found the medicine. Then he put it on a
night table so that the other boys would be sure to find it. One of the
two boys decided not to go through with the plan and ran away.
However, the other boy went to the room and threw away the
medicine. The victim had an asthma attack and died.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that persons the boy's age are
adults for purposes of criminal liability.

456

If the boy is charged with conspiracy, a court will probably find him

(A) guilty, because he knowingly aided and abetted in the commission

of a crime.

(B) guilty, because he committed an overt act in furtherance of an

agreement to throw away the victim's medicine.

(C) not guilty, because he did not agree to commit any crime.

(D) not guilty, because one of the boys effectively withdrew from any

conspiracy that existed.

20. As part of her campaign for reelection, the President of the United
States was driving through the main street of a city in a car with a
bubble-shaped roof made of bulletproof glass. Intending to shoot the
President, the defendant crouched on the roof of a building and aimed a
high-powered rifle at the glass top of his car. He fired three times,
striking the glass with each bullet. None of the bullets penetrated the
glass, and because of the noise of the cheering crowd, the President
was unaware that any shots had been fired. A police officer observed
the defendant firing at the President, however, and placed him under
arrest. The defendant was subsequently charged with violating a
federal statute that makes it a crime to attempt to assassinate the
President, and he was acquitted in a federal court.

If the defendant is prosecuted in the state court and charged with
criminal assault under state law, a court should find him

(A) not guilty, because he has already been acquitted in the federal

court.

(B) not guilty, because the President was unaware that shots had been

fired.

(C) guilty, because the defendant intended to hit the President with the

bullets.

(D) guilty, because the defendant's conduct would cause the reasonable

person to be placed in fear of his or her life.

21. A man had just been released from prison after serving a three-year

term for aggravated assault. In need of money, he called his old friend,
the defendant, and asked whether the defendant would be interested in
joining him in the robbery of a pawnshop. The defendant agreed, but
only after making the man promise that there would be no violence.

457

Upon the defendant's insistence, they carried realistic-looking toy guns,
and when they entered the pawnshop, they drew their toy guns and
ordered the store owner to give them all the money in his cash register
and all the gems in his safe. The store owner took a gun from the safe
and shot the man, killing him. The store owner then aimed the pistol at
the defendant, who fled from the store. By statute, the jurisdiction has
adopted the felony-murder rule.

If the defendant is charged with the murder of the man, the defendant's
most effective argument in defense is that

(A) the man was not a victim of the felony that resulted in his death.

(B) the store owner was justified in shooting the man.

(C) the use of toy guns made it unforeseeable that the robbery would

result in the death of any person.

(D) the defendant lacked malice aforethought.

22. Although the defendant had been licensed to drive for 15 years, he
allowed his license to expire while he was temporarily out of the
country. When he returned, he meant to get it renewed or reinstated but
did not get around to doing so. Although a statute made it a
misdemeanor to drive without a license, the defendant continued to
drive. One day, he accidentally dropped his cigarette while driving his
car. He felt around for it while he drove, until his fingers encountered
its glowing tip. Taking his eyes off the road for a moment to pick up the
still-burning cigarette, he failed to see the victim, who stepped out
from between parked cars. The defendant struck the victim, who died
instantly.

If the defendant is charged with homicide as a result of the victim's
death, which of the following would be the prosecutor's most effective
argument?

(A) The victim's death resulted from the defendant's commission of a

dangerous misdemeanor.

(B) The defendant's violation of the statute that required a driver's

license made him guilty of culpable negligence per se, since the
statute was designed to protect users of public roads against
unqualified drivers.

(C) While mere negligence is insufficient to sustain a murder charge, it

458

is sufficient to sustain a charge of involuntary manslaughter where
it results in death.

(D) The defendant created a high and unreasonable risk of death or
serious injury when he took his eyes off the road while driving.

23. A lifeguard worked from 5 P.M. to 10 P.M. every night at a public
swimming pool operated by the city. When she arrived at work
Wednesday evening, she asked her supervisor whether she could leave
early because she had a date. Since there were only a few people at the
pool, the supervisor said that the lifeguard could leave at 8 P.M. At 8
P.M., the lifeguard told the supervisor she was going and left, although
the pool had become quite crowded with adults and young children. At
9 P.M., a nine-year-old girl fell into the pool, striking her head against
its edge. One of the adults swimming in the pool saw the girl fall and
realized that the child would drown if someone did not rescue her. The
adult had seen the lifeguard leave and knew that there was no lifeguard
present, but she made no effort to rescue the girl, although the adult
was a strong swimmer and could easily have done so with no risk to
herself. The girl drowned.

If the lifeguard is charged with criminal homicide in the death of the
girl, which of the following would be her most effective argument in
defense?

(A) She was not present at the time of the drowning.

(B) Her duty to assist people in the swimming pool terminated when the

supervisor permitted her to leave at 8 P.M.

(C) The girl's death resulted from the adult's failure to render aid.

(D) She did not intend the girl's death.

24. The victim was addicted to heroin and frequently committed acts of

prostitution to obtain the money she needed to buy drugs. One night, she
was out looking for customers for prostitution when she was
approached by the defendant, who asked what her price was. When she
told him that she would have intercourse with him for $20, he said that
he would get the money from a friend and see her later. When the
victim went home several hours later, the defendant was waiting inside
her apartment. He said that he wanted to have sex with her, but when
the victim repeated her demand for $20, he said that he had no money.
She told him to get out or she would call the police. The defendant took

459

a knife from his pocket, saying that if she did not have intercourse with
him, he would kill her. Silently, the victim took off her clothes and had
intercourse with him. Afterwards, when the defendant fell asleep, the
victim beat him with a lamp.

If the defendant is charged with rape, the court should find him

(A) guilty, because he overcame the victim's refusal to have intercourse

with him by threatening to kill her with his knife.

(B) not guilty, because the victim's demand for $20 made her resistance

conditional and therefore less than total.

(C) not guilty, because the victim offered no resistance and the

defendant did not use physical force.

(D) not guilty, because of the injuries inflicted by the victim.

25. A woman was in her eighth month of pregnancy when her husband left
her. Unwilling to face life as a single parent, she asked her doctor to
perform an abortion. Her doctor refused, explaining that abortion so
late in pregnancy could be dangerous. The woman's cousin, the
defendant, had graduated from medical school and was waiting for
news about whether she had passed the state medical board's licensing
exam. The woman asked the defendant to abort the pregnancy, saying
that she would kill herself if the defendant refused. Reluctantly, the
defendant agreed to perform the abortion in the woman's kitchen. The
defendant performed a surgical procedure that usually resulted in
abortion, but because the pregnancy had advanced as far as it did, the
baby was alive when separated from the woman's body. The defendant
held the baby's head under water in an attempt to end his life, but after
a short time, her conscience bothered her. She pulled the baby from the
water and gave him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, directing the woman
to call an ambulance. When the ambulance arrived, the baby was
breathing on his own. He was taken to a hospital where, because of
brain damage, he remained in a coma until he died five years later.

If the defendant is charged with murdering the baby, her most effective
argument in defense would be that

(A) the woman had a constitutional right to an abortion.

(B) the defendant attempted to save the baby's life by giving him mouth-

to-mouth resuscitation.

460

(C) the baby's death five years later after the defendant's act was not

proximately caused by the defendant's act.

(D) the defendant lacked the necessary state of mind to be guilty of
criminal homicide, because the surgical procedure that she
performed usually resulted in abortion.

26. The defendant shot the victim to death. She was subsequently charged

with voluntary manslaughter. Which of the following additional facts, if
true, would lead to an acquittal on that charge?

(A) At the time of the shooting, the defendant believed that the victim

was going to stab her, but the reasonable person in her place would
not have held that belief.

(B) At the time of the shooting, the reasonable person in the defendant's
place would have believed that the victim was going to stab the
defendant, but the defendant did not hold that belief.

(C) At the time of the shooting, the defendant did not know whether the

victim was going to stab her.

(D) At the time of the shooting, the defendant mistakenly, but

reasonably, believed that the victim was going to stab her.

27. Two students were law students in the same Contracts class. Knowing
that the professor kept his lecture notes in a cabinet in his office, they
planned to break into the office for the purpose of copying his notes.
The first student purchased a miniature camera for this purpose after
discussing the purchase with the second student and collecting half the
cost from her. When they saw the professor leave his office at
lunchtime, they went there. The second student opened the locked door
by slipping a strip of plastic under its latch. Once inside the office, the
first student found the professor's notes and photographed them with the
camera that he had purchased.

Of which of the following crimes may the first student properly be
convicted?

(A) Conspiracy to commit burglary.

(B) Conspiracy to commit larceny.

(C) Both conspiracy to commit burglary and conspiracy to commit

larceny.

461

(D) Neither conspiracy to commit burglary nor conspiracy to commit

larceny.

28. The defendant and his friend were trying to become stuntmen, so they

filmed several stunt videos and posted them to the Internet. To continue
to attract views, they made the stunt videos increasingly elaborate. In
their latest video, the defendant's friend ran in front of a concrete wall
while the defendant shot at him with a pistol. After the first take, the
friend said, “You need to shoot closer to me, so it looks a lot cooler.”
In the second take, the defendant shot as close as he could to his friend.
One of the bullets ricocheted off the wall and struck the friend in the
head. He was killed instantly.

What is the most serious crime the defendant can be charged with?

(A) Murder.

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C) Involuntary manslaughter.

(D) No crime.

29. A hunter earned his living by catching poisonous reptiles for sale to
zoos and private collectors. He had been commissioned to capture a
rare, highly poisonous species of snake. The hunter hired a
professional chemist to develop and manufacture a drug that he could
take before handling this particular snake, and which would protect
him against the reptile's poison in the event that he was bitten. Although
the chemist knew that the bite of the snake was usually fatal, and that
there was no defense against its venom, she welcomed the opportunity
to earn some easy money. She sold the hunter a bottle of tablets, telling
him that they were based on her secret formula and that they would
protect him against the snake's venom. Actually, the tablets were made
of nothing more than sugar, but the chemist thought that if the hunter
believed strongly enough in their power, he would handle the snakes so
confidently that he would not be bitten. The hunter caught a snake and
took one of the chemist's tablets before handling it, following the
instructions that she had given him. While he was handling the snake, it
bit him. Because the tablets did not protect him against the venom, the
hunter became ill as a result of the snakebite and almost died.

If the chemist is prosecuted for her sale of the tablets to the hunter, she
may properly be found guilty of

462

(A) attempted murder only.

(B) obtaining property by false pretenses only.

(C) attempted murder and obtaining property by false pretenses.

(D) neither attempted murder nor obtaining property by false pretenses.

30. The defendant purchased an ounce of cocaine and divided it into 50

packets of about one-half gram each. She was selling them outside the
local high school when a drug addict noticed her and saw the
opportunity to get some free drugs. The drug addict stepped up beside
her. With his hand in the pocket of his jacket, he thrust his finger
forward inside the pocket and jabbed her in the ribs with it. Snarling,
he said, “I've got a gun. Give me the dope or I'll blow you away.” The
defendant reached into her purse, drew a small pistol that she kept
there, and shot the drug addict, killing him.

If the defendant is charged with the murder of the drug addict, she
should be found

(A) guilty, because it was unreasonable for her to use deadly force to

protect illegal contraband.

(B) guilty, because the drug addict was unarmed.

(C) guilty, because the defendant was committing a crime and therefore

had no privilege of self-defense.

(D) not guilty, because it was reasonable for her to believe that her life

was in danger.

31. The defendant and his brother ran a methamphetamine lab in their

home. An undercover officer went to the home and tried to buy a large
quantity of drugs. As the undercover officer was paying, his police
radio went off. The defendant's brother yelled, “Police!” and grabbed a
nearby shotgun the brothers kept to defend their lab. He then shot the
undercover officer in the leg. Other officers stormed the house and
arrested both the defendant and his brother. Both of them were charged
with conspiracy to sell methamphetamine and battery for the shooting
of the officer.

At trial, the defendant argued he was not guilty of battery because he
was not the one who shot the officer. How should the court rule?

(A) Guilty, because the brother was defending the lab when he shot the

463

officer.

(B) Guilty, because the defendant acted with reckless indifference in

keeping the shotgun on the property to defend the lab.

(C) Not guilty, because the defendant did not shoot the undercover

officer.

(D) Not guilty, because the sale of methamphetamine is not an

inherently dangerous crime.

32. After looking at a car that the seller had advertised for sale, the buyer
agreed to purchase it for $3,000. The buyer gave the seller $100 cash,
promising to bring the balance and to pick up the car the following day.
In fact, the seller was a thief who had no intention of selling the car and
had been collecting cash in down payments from buyers all over the
state. As soon as the buyer left, the seller ran off with the $100. One
week later, the seller was arrested and charged with embezzlement and
larceny by trick. He can properly be convicted of

(A) embezzlement only.

(B) larceny by trick only.

(C) embezzlement and larceny by trick.

(D) neither embezzlement nor larceny by trick.

33. A wife was extremely hot-tempered and very possessive of her

husband. She frequently flew into a hysterical rage if he even looked at
another woman. One evening, the wife and the husband were in a bar
when they began arguing. Wanting to hurt his wife, and knowing that it
would infuriate her, the husband asked a waitress, who was sitting at
the next table, to dance with him. The waitress accepted, but as she and
the husband began to dance, the wife became enraged and ran at them,
striking the husband over the head with a wine bottle. Later that night,
the husband died of a head injury resulting from the blow. The wife
was charged with murder, but her lawyer argued that the charge should
be reduced to voluntary manslaughter because the wife was acting out
of extreme passion when she struck the husband. Is the wife's lawyer
correct?

(A) Yes, on the theory of deliberate provocation.

(B) Yes, because of the wife's extreme feelings of possessiveness

regarding her husband.

464

(C) No, because the ordinary person in the wife's situation would not
have become violently enraged by the husband's dancing with the
waitress.

(D) No, on the theory of mistaken justification.

34. The company was a retailer of computer hardware and software. It
frequently sold its products on credit, and credit customers were
required to execute security agreements giving the company, in the
event of default in payment, the right to repossess the goods sold
without resort to judicial proceedings. The defendant was employed by
the company as a collection agent. As such, his job was to contact
customers whose payments were past due and to repossess computer
hardware when necessary.

One night, the defendant went to a customer's home to demand that she
either make her payments or return the computer hardware. Although
he heard a radio playing inside the apartment, no one answered his
knock. The defendant tried the door, thinking that his knock might not
have been heard over the sound of the radio. Finding the door
unlocked, he opened it and entered the apartment. He called the
customer's name as he walked from room to room, but found that
nobody was home. He was about to leave when he saw the computer
hardware that the customer had purchased from the company on a
table. He left a signed note that said, “Because of non-payment, I have
repossessed your computer.” He then took the equipment with him.

If the defendant is charged with common law burglary, which of the
following would be his most effective argument in defense?

(A) He did not use force to make an entry.

(B) He did not enter by “breaking” since the door was not locked.

(C) When he opened the door and entered the apartment, he had no

intention of committing a crime.

(D) He left a note explaining his actions.

35. The defendant suffered a severe head injury in an accident that

occurred three years ago. As a result, she experienced eight incidents
of sudden unconsciousness, each lasting approximately two minutes.
All the incidents occurred within a three-month period immediately
following the accident, and all occurred while the defendant was at

465

home. Last week, she was driving her automobile in a lawful manner
when she suddenly lost consciousness as a result of the head injury.
Her car swerved out of control onto the sidewalk, striking and
permanently injuring a pedestrian. The defendant was charged with
violating a state statute that defines the crime of “reckless maiming” as
“causing permanent injury to another person by acting in knowing
disregard of the plain and strong likelihood that death or serious
personal injury will result.”

Which of the following is the defendant's most effective argument in
defense against the charge of reckless maiming?

(A) The defendant's head injury was not the result of any culpable

conduct by the defendant.

(B) After losing consciousness while driving, the defendant was no

longer capable of exercising control over the operation of her
vehicle.

(C) The defendant reasonably believed that she would not have any

further incidents of unconsciousness.

(D) The defendant did not know that her driving would lead to death or

serious injury.

36. During a trip across the United States, a man used an Internet company
that allowed people to rent out their homes to travelers. The man
picked a nice home near the Grand Canyon that the defendant was
renting out while he was away on business. While staying in the home,
the man stumbled across a used syringe in a trash can. Because he
suspected the defendant was engaged in criminal activity, the man
searched the home and discovered several bags of heroin in the
defendant's closets. The man took the drug evidence to the local police.
Based on this evidence, the police arrested the defendant as soon as he
returned.

If the defendant makes an appropriate motion to suppress the evidence,
the motion should be

(A) granted, because by turning the evidence over to the police, the man

acted as a de facto agent of the government.

(B) granted, because the man intentionally searched for drug evidence

while staying in the home.

466

(C) granted, because the police used the evidence in arresting the

defendant.

(D) denied.

37. The defendant came home from work to find that his wife and two of

his children had been slashed and cut and were lying dead in a pool of
blood. His third child was also cut and bleeding severely. As the
defendant approached, the child said, “Our neighbor killed Mommy.”
The defendant said, “I'll kill that son of a bitch.” Then he loaded his
shotgun and went next door to the neighbor's house. He knocked on the
door, and the neighbor opened the door and said, “I killed your family,
what are you going to do about it?” The defendant shot and killed him.
State statutes codify the common law definitions of voluntary and
involuntary manslaughter, and define first degree murder as “the
deliberate and premeditated killing of a human being,” and second
degree murder as “the killing of a human being with malice
aforethought.”

If the defendant is charged with voluntary manslaughter, the court
should find him

(A) guilty, because he intended the death of the neighbor because he
believed that the neighbor had killed his wife and children,

(B) guilty, because the killing of the neighbor was deliberate and

premeditated.

(C) not guilty, because the killing of the neighbor was deliberate and

premeditated.

(D) not guilty, because the neighbor was the killer of the defendant's

wife and children.

38. The defendant was the chief cashier at a supermarket. As part of her

duties, she deposited the day's receipts in the company safe each night.
One Friday night, when the store was to be closed for the entire
weekend, after depositing the day's receipts in the safe, the defendant
removed $500 from the safe without permission. She knew that no one
would be looking for the money in the safe during the weekend and
planned to take it with her on a gambling junket to Las Vegas. Her
intentions were to gamble with the money, and, if she won, to return it
on Monday morning. If she lost, she planned to alter the store records
to hide the fact that the money was missing.

467

On Monday morning, the defendant returned to the supermarket.
Having won a few hundred dollars during her weekend gambling trip,
she returned the money that she had taken from the safe. One of her
coworkers saw her returning the money and questioned her about it
until the defendant admitted what she had done. The coworker stopped
her before she closed the safe and said that unless the defendant gave
him $25 of the store's money, he would tell the boss. The defendant
knew that she could get away with taking $25 because the store
records were frequently off by that much and the boss never worried
about it. Thus, she took out $25 from the safe and gave it to the
coworker.

If the defendant is charged with larceny for taking $500 from the safe
on Friday night, she should be found

(A) not guilty, because the owner of the supermarket was not deprived

of its use.

(B) not guilty, because when she took the money, she intended to return

it if she won.

(C) guilty, because she withheld $25 on Monday morning.

(D) guilty, because she planned to keep the money if she lost.

39. A statute provides as follows: “Any person who knowingly sells an
intoxicating substance to a person under the age of 21 years shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.” The owner of a cocktail lounge hired the
defendant to work as her bartender. Before the defendant began
working, the owner read him the above statute and explained the need
for him to check the identification of all persons who appeared to be
under the age of 21 years. She also told him that if she ever heard of
his violating the statute, she would fire him immediately. Later that
night, a 17-year-old teenager who looked like he was 25 ordered a
glass of wine. The teenager showed the defendant an altered driver's
license that falsely stated his age to be 22. The defendant was not sure
whether the phrase intoxicating substance in the statute included wine,
and he served it to the teenager. An undercover police officer who was
at the bar observed the transaction. Hoping to make an arrest, the
officer deliberately waited until after the wine was served. He then
showed his badge, demanding to see the teenager's identification.
Recognizing the driver's license as a forgery, he arrested the defendant.

468

If the defendant is charged with violating the statute, his most effective
argument in defense is that

(A) he did not know whether the statutory phrase intoxicating

substance included wine.

(B) he reasonably believed the teenager to be over the age of 21 years.

(C) the undercover police officer entrapped him.

(D) the wine was not an intoxicating substance because the teenager

never got a chance to drink it.

40. A state law requires automobiles to be equipped with a device to

reduce the emission of air-polluting substances and provides that any
person who knowingly removes such a device from an automobile
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The defendant was the operator of an
automobile service station at which she conducted minor repairs. The
victim brought her car to the defendant's station and asked whether
there was anything that the defendant could do to improve the car's fuel
economy. The defendant said that removing the air-pollution control
device would make the car use less fuel, and she offered to do so for a
fee. The victim paid the fee, and the defendant removed the device.
Although the defendant worked carefully, she accidentally loosened a
connection in the exhaust system without knowing she had done so.
However, she did know that such leaks could result in death. When the
victim drove away, exhaust gases were leaking from the exhaust system
into the victim's car. After driving for a short time, the victim was
poisoned by the gases and died.

If the defendant is prosecuted for the homicide of the victim, she
should be found

(A) guilty of involuntary manslaughter under the unlawful act doctrine,
because the victim's death would not have occurred but for the
defendant's removal of the air-pollution control device.

(B) guilty of voluntary manslaughter, because she knew there was a

possibility that death could result from a leak in the exhaust system.

(C) guilty of involuntary manslaughter, because an automobile is a
dangerous instrumentality and the defendant was culpably
negligent.

(D) not guilty.

469

41. After closing down his restaurant at 3 A.M. the defendant was getting in
his car to go home when he felt something sharp and metal jab him in
the back. A low voice growled, “I've got a gun. Give me your wallet or
I'll shoot you right here.” Because of several recent thefts in the area,
the defendant habitually carried a large kitchen knife in his coat pocket.
The defendant spun around and stabbed the “robber” in the chest. The
“robber” fell down to the ground dead. The defendant then realized that
the “robber” was actually the owner of the competing restaurant next
door, who was well known for playing practical jokes, and the “gun”
was simply the round handle of a metal spatula. The defendant was
arrested and charged with murder.

If the defendant asserts that he acted in self-defense, he should be
found

(A) not guilty, because the defendant was justified in believing he was

about to be robbed.

(B) not guilty, because the defendant's belief that the “robber” would

shoot him was reasonable.

(C) guilty, because the defendant did not turn around and verify that the

“robber” was actually holding a gun.

(D) guilty, because it was unreasonable to spin around and stab an

unknown person with a kitchen knife.

42. The defendant was a narcotics addict in desperate need of a shot. He

offered to permit a drug dealer to have sexual intercourse with his wife
in return for drugs. The drug dealer accepted the offer and went home
with the defendant. When the defendant told his wife about the
arrangement, however, she refused to have any contact with the drug
dealer. The defendant struck her several times and held her down
while the drug dealer had intercourse with her forcibly. Afterwards,
the drug dealer handed a packet of heroin to the defendant.

Which of the following is the most serious crime of which the
defendant can be found guilty?

(A) Rape.

(B) Battery.

(C) Procuring for prostitution.

470

(D) Possession of narcotics.

43. The defendant was about to go to his sister's wedding when he

remembered that he had inadvertently left his camera at his friend's
house. Although he knew that his friend was out of town, the defendant
went to his friend's house in the hope of finding some way to get the
camera so that he could take pictures at the wedding. The door was
locked, but when the defendant shook the doorknob vigorously with his
hand, the door opened. The defendant entered and searched for his
camera, but he could not find it. As he was leaving, he saw a silver
candy dish on a shelf with several other items and took it to give his
sister as a wedding present. He subsequently changed his mind,
however, and returned it to his friend.

Of which of the following crimes may the defendant properly be
convicted?

(A) Larceny.

(B) Burglary.

(C) Attempted burglary.

(D) No crime.

44. The defendant was a nightclub performer who was billed as “the man
with second sight.” As part of his nightclub act, he would put on a
blindfold and walk between the tables, identifying the contents of
pockets and purses of members of the audience. One day, as a publicity
stunt, he had himself blindfolded and attempted to drive an automobile
in rush-hour traffic. Because he was unable to see the road, he collided
with the vehicle in front of him. As a result of the impact, the other
vehicle burst into flames and three of its occupants were severely
burned, one so badly that he permanently lost the use of his legs. If they
had not been rescued by a fire company that happened to be passing by,
all three would have died.

On a charge of attempted involuntary manslaughter, the defendant
should be found

(A) guilty, since his reckless behavior nearly resulted in the death of

another human being.

(B) guilty, since he had completed all steps necessary to result in guilt
for involuntary manslaughter, and the deaths of the victims were

471

prevented by an independent agency.

(C) not guilty, since he lacked the requisite state of mind to be liable for

an attempt.

(D) not guilty, since the crime of involuntary manslaughter is a lesser

offense included in murder.

45. A state statute provides that “any person who brings about the death of
another human being with the intent to cause said death or in the course
of committing burglary, rape, robbery, or kidnapping shall be guilty of
murder in the first degree.” The jurisdiction applies common law
definitions for the four enumerated felonies. The defendant was
attempting to use dynamite to blow open the door of a warehouse so
that he could enter to steal its contents. His accomplice was waiting in
the getaway car parked at the curb. When the defendant detonated the
charge, the resulting explosion damaged the building wall, causing
bricks and chunks of mortar to fly through the air. A brick crashed
through the windshield of the getaway car, striking the accomplice in
the head and killing him.

If the defendant is charged with murder in the first degree, which of the
following arguments would be his most effective defense?

(A) The statute was not intended to protect the accomplice of a felon.

(B) Burglary as defined by common law is not a dangerous felony.

(C) The accomplice's death was not proximately caused by the

defendant's attempt to commit any of the crimes enumerated by the
statute.

(D) The accomplice assumed the risk by participating in the

commission of a felony.

46. The defendant, who had applied for employment with a company,

learned that the decision as to whether to hire him would be made by
the company's personnel manager. Anxious to receive the job, the
defendant offered to give the personnel manager his first week's pay if
the personnel manager would hire him. The personnel manager
accepted the defendant's offer and hired him, later accepting the
payment. Subsequently, the defendant and the personnel manager were
both charged with violating a state law that provided that “it shall be a
felony for any person with responsibility for hiring others to solicit,
demand, or receive anything of value from persons hired in exchange

472

for hiring said persons.” They were tried jointly, the personnel
manager as a principal and the defendant as an accessory.

The defendant's best argument for a dismissal of the charge against him
is that

(A) a person cannot be tried as an accessory until the principal has first

been tried and convicted.

(B) he did not assist the personnel manager in the commission of the

crime.

(C) no person can be charged as an accessory if the crime could not

have been committed without his or her participation.

(D) the law was intended to protect people in the defendant's position

against people in the personnel manager's position.

47. The defendant, in need of money, waited in an alley until the victim
walked by on the street. Then, stepping out of the alley, he stuck his
hand in his pocket with his finger thrust forward and said, “I've got a
gun in this pocket.” Snatching the victim's purse with the other hand, he
ran away. Because she thought that he had a gun, the victim did not
attempt to stop him.

Of which of the following offenses would the defendant be most likely
to be properly convicted?

(A) Robbery.

(B) Larceny by trick.

(C) Embezzlement.

(D) False pretenses.

48. When a doctor went away on vacation, he left the key to his apartment
with his neighbor, the defendant, who promised to water the doctor's
plants until he returned. One day, as the defendant was watering the
doctor's plants, she suspected one of them to be marijuana. She
watered the rest of the plants and then went to the public library, where
she consulted a reference book and found that the suspicious plant was
indeed marijuana. She went back to the doctor's apartment and let
herself in with the key. Then she pulled the marijuana plant out by its
roots and destroyed it by stuffing it into the garbage disposal in her
own apartment.

473

The jurisdiction applies the common law definition of larceny and has
a statute defining burglary as “breaking and entering into the premises
of another for the purpose of committing larceny.” If charged with
larceny and burglary, the defendant should be found guilty of

(A) larceny only.

(B) burglary only.

(C) larceny and burglary.

(D) neither larceny nor burglary.

49. In the course of robbing a bank, the defendant pointed a gun at three
bank tellers and the bank manager and ordered them to go from the
bank lobby to the back room while his confederate attempted to open
the safe. Threatening to shoot them if they refused, he then ordered one
of the bank tellers to undress and commanded the bank manager to have
sexual intercourse with her. Fearful that they would be killed
otherwise, the manager and teller obeyed the defendant's commands
without protesting.

Of which of the following crimes is the defendant guilty?

(A) Solicitation to commit rape.

(B) Rape.

(C) Both solicitation to commit rape and rape.

(D) Neither solicitation to commit rape nor rape.

50. The defendant sold a pistol to a man. Later, the man was stopped by

police who were routinely checking the licenses of motorists. The man
objected to a search of his car, but the officers ignored him. The
officers thoroughly searched the man's car and discovered the pistol in
the glove compartment. Subsequently, the defendant was charged with
violating a statute that makes it a crime for any person “to sell or offer
for sale any firearm that has not been properly registered pursuant to
law.”

The defendant's motion to prevent introduction of the pistol into
evidence will most likely be

(A) denied, since the routine license check was not a violation of the

man's rights.

474

(B) denied, because the defendant has no standing to object to the

search of the man's car.

(C) granted, because the man objected to the search of his car at the

time it took place.

(D) granted, because the search of the man's car was excessive in

scope.

51. A man broke into a church in order to desecrate it. He planned to do so
by sacrificing a squirrel on top of the altar. When he got inside the
church, the squirrel bit him on the finger and escaped. The man
believed desecrating a church was a felony, but there were actually no
laws at all regarding desecration. If the man is charged with burglary,
he should be

(A) convicted, because he intended to commit a felony when he broke

into the church.

(B) convicted, because he would have completed his intended crime if

the squirrel hadn't escaped.

(C) acquitted, because he could only be charged with attempted

burglary.

(D) acquitted, because what he intended to do was not a crime.

52. The defendant belonged to a sorority. Members of the sorority who

paid a rent of $100 per semester were entitled to a single-occupancy
bedroom in the sorority house. Although house residents shared kitchen
and dining room facilities, the bedrooms were not communal and were
normally kept locked by their occupants. With the knowledge of its
members, the sorority kept duplicates of all keys so that copies could
be made in the event that a resident lost her key. A student, a member of
the sorority, suspected that the defendant was selling marijuana. One
weekend, when she knew that the defendant had gone home to visit her
parents, the student called the police and told them of her suspicions. In
response to her call, two officers came to the sorority house to
interview the student. During the course of their conversation, the
student stated that she was the defendant's roommate and offered to let
them into the defendant's room. In fact, the student was not the
defendant's roommate. The key that she used to open the door was
actually one of the duplicates kept by the sorority. Upon entering, the
police officers saw a tobacco pipe containing traces of marijuana
residue on a night table. The defendant was subsequently prosecuted

475

for possession of marijuana. Prior to trial, she made an appropriate
motion to suppress the use of the pipe and its contents as evidence.

Which of the following would be the prosecution's strongest argument
in opposition to the defendant's motion?

(A) The student had apparent authority to permit the entry into the room.

(B) The student had probable cause to believe that the officers would

find marijuana in the room.

(C) The defendant did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy

since she knew that the sorority kept a duplicate of her room key.

(D) The Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable search

and seizure should not be strictly applied to students at educational
institutions.

53. Because they were bigots, a man and a woman were angry when a

black family moved into a house on their street. Deciding to drive them
away and to set an example that would discourage other black people
from moving into the neighborhood, they agreed to set fire to the
family's home. They went to the house, and the man started pouring
gasoline around it. A crowd of onlookers began to gather. The
defendant, one of the onlookers, shouted, “Burn their house down!”
intending that the man and the woman would do so. After the man
finished pouring the gasoline, the woman lit a match and set it afire,
burning the house to the ground.

On a charge of arson, the defendant is

(A) guilty, because he aided and abetted in the crime by his presence,

coupled with his criminal intent.

(B) guilty, because, intending that the man and the woman would burn

the house down, he shouted encouragement.

(C) not guilty, because his words did not create a clear and present

danger that did not already exist.

(D) not guilty, because words alone are not sufficient to result in

criminal liability.

54. The defendant was a resident patient at the state mental hospital, where
he had been receiving treatment for a mental illness diagnosed as
chronic paranoid schizophrenia. As a result of his illness, he believed

476

that the governor of his state was part of a nationwide plot to turn all
voting citizens into drug addicts. He felt that the only way to foil the
plot was to kill the governor, but he realized that the law prohibited
such an act. He knew that if he was caught making any attempt on the
governor's life, he would be punished, but he concluded that it would
be better to be convicted and punished for a crime than to be turned
into a drug addict. Ultimately, he was unable to resist his impulse to
kill the governor, and, in the context of his delusion, his conduct
seemed reasonable.

On the governor's next visit, the defendant placed poison in food he
knew would be served to the governor, intending to cause the
governor's death. The governor ate the food and died as a result. If the
defendant is charged with murder in a jurisdiction that has adopted
only the M'Naghten test of insanity, the defendant should be found

(A) guilty, since he knew the nature of his act and that it was prohibited

by law.

(B) not guilty, because the defendant can establish that his mental

illness made him unable to resist the impulse to kill the governor.

(C) not guilty, since the defendant's conduct was the result of mental

illness.

(D) not guilty, because his delusion was the result of mental disease
and if his conduct was reasonable within the context of that
delusion.

55. In which of the following situations is the defendant's claim of

intoxication most likely to result in his or her being found not guilty?

(A) In a jurisdiction that applies the common law definition, the

defendant is charged with involuntary manslaughter for the death of
a pedestrian whom she struck while driving an automobile. The
defendant asserts that at the time of the accident, she was so drunk
that she did not see the pedestrian in the roadway.

(B) In a jurisdiction in which the statutory age of consent is 18, the
defendant is charged with statutory rape after having sexual
intercourse with a female who was 17 years of age. The defendant
asserts that he was so intoxicated that he did not realize that he was
engaging in sexual intercourse.

(C) In a jurisdiction that applies the common law definition, the

477

defendant is charged with murder for the death of a person whom
she struck with her automobile. The defendant asserts that, without
her knowledge, an unknown person put alcohol in her fruit juice, as
a result of which she became so intoxicated that she could not see
clearly or control the movements of her hands and feet. She further
asserts that, unaware that she was drunk, she believed the visual
and physical difficulties to be the result of illness and was
attempting to drive to a hospital when the accident occurred.

(D) In a jurisdiction that applies the common law definition, the

defendant is charged with voluntary manslaughter after killing his
wife. He asserts that he was so drunk that he imagined that he saw
another man in bed with her, and that he killed her in the drunken
rage that resulted.

56. In which one of the following situations is the defendant LEAST likely

to be guilty of murder?

(A) Having been hired by a third person to beat the victim severely

enough to “put her in the hospital,” the defendant struck the victim
repeatedly with a baseball bat in the knees. Although the defendant
intended only to break the victim's legs, she died of shock.

(B) Because he suffers from mental disease, the defendant believed the
victim to be Adolf Hitler. Intending to kill him, the defendant shot
him to death.

(C) Believing the victim to be asleep, the defendant fired 10 bullets

into his head. In fact, the victim had died of a heart attack moments
before the defendant entered the room and was already dead when
the defendant shot him.

(D) The defendant stole a check from the victim's mailbox and

attempted to cash it in a bank by masquerading as the victim.
Suspecting forgery, the bank teller signaled to the bank guard. As
the guard approached, the defendant shot at him. When the guard
returned the defendant's fire, one of the guard's bullets ricocheted
off a wall and struck a customer, killing him.

57. A landlord was the owner of a three-unit residential building. One day,
while the defendant and his wife were out of town, the landlord and a
police officer were having coffee together in the landlord's apartment.
During the course of their conversation, the landlord said that she was
worried about the defendant because once, while visiting him, she saw

478

a substance in his apartment that she believed to be cocaine. Since she
really did not know what cocaine looked like, however, she was not
sure. The officer said, “Don't worry. For all you know, the stuff you
saw was talcum powder. I'm a cop, so I know coke when I see it. If
you'd like, I'll have a look and let you know whether or not there is
anything for you to worry about.”

Using her key to open the door to the defendant's apartment, the
landlord brought the officer inside. Lying on a table in the entrance
hall inside the apartment was a plastic pouch containing white
powder. The officer sniffed it and said, “That's coke, all right,” putting
it in his pocket. Eventually, the defendant was charged with criminal
possession of dangerous drugs.

On the charge of possessing dangerous drugs, if the defendant makes
an appropriate motion to suppress use of the plastic pouch of cocaine
that the officer found in his apartment, his motion should be

(A) denied, since the plastic pouch was in plain sight when the officer

entered the apartment.

(B) denied, since the landlord, the owner of the building, had given the

officer permission to enter.

(C) denied, since the defendant was not under suspicion at the time that

the officer entered the apartment.

(D) granted.

58. When he was 19 years old, the defendant pleaded guilty to petty

larceny. Because of his age, he was not sentenced to prison, but he was
required to report to a Youth Supervision Officer every month for one
year. At the end of that period, he was discharged from supervision. At
the time, his attorney advised him that he was pleading guilty to a
“Youthful Offense” rather than to a crime, and that because he was
assigned to a Youth Supervision Officer, he would have no criminal
record as a result of the proceeding. The defendant believed this
advice, but it was in fact false, in that the charge to which he pleaded
guilty was a criminal one.

Twenty years later, the defendant applied for employment with the
state. In his application, he stated under oath that he had never been
convicted of a crime.

479

A state statute reads as follows:

“Perjury in the second degree consists of making any statement under
oath with the knowledge that such statement is false. Perjury in the
second degree is a felony punishable by a term not to exceed five
years in the state prison.”

If the defendant is charged with perjury in the second degree, the court
should find him

(A) not guilty, because he lacked the mental state required by the

statute.

(B) not guilty, because reliance on the advice of counsel is a complete

defense.

(C) not guilty, because a plea of guilty is not the same as a conviction.

(D) guilty.

59. A woman was a collector of antique automobiles. One day, she took
her infant daughter for a ride in one of the most valuable cars in her
collection. On her way, she stopped to buy a newspaper. Because her
daughter had fallen asleep in the backseat, the collector left her in the
car when she got out. The defendant, a professional car thief who
happened to be at the newspaper stand, jumped into the collector's car
and drove it away without noticing the daughter in the backseat.

The defendant realized that he would not be able to sell a stolen car as
unusual as this one, so he parked it in a friend's garage, still unaware
of the presence of the sleeping child. Getting the collector's name and
phone number from some papers in the glove compartment of the car,
the defendant phoned her and left a message on her voicemail, telling
her that if she did not immediately bring $1,000 in cash to a certain
location, he would set the car on fire.

Upon hearing the message, the collector brought $1,000 to the location
specified. The defendant, who was waiting for her, took the money and
returned the car. The daughter was still sleeping quietly in the
backseat.

If the defendant is charged with kidnapping, he should be found

(A) guilty, since he confined and moved the daughter without her

480

consent.

(B) guilty, since the asportation of the daughter resulted from his

commission of a serious felony.

(C) not guilty, since his primary purpose was to steal the car, and the

movement of the daughter was only incidental to his accomplishing
that purpose.

(D) not guilty, since he did not know that the daughter was in the car.

60. The defendant was driving across the border from Mexico. He arrived
at the border station. The border inspector asked him to open the trunk
of his car and began searching it. In the course of the search, the
inspector discovered three pounds of marijuana. The defendant was
subsequently charged with the illegal importation of a controlled
substance and was tried in a federal court. While his trial was pending,
the state charged him with violation of a state statute that provided that
“any person in possession of more than one ounce of marijuana shall
be guilty of a felony.” While the federal court trial is in progress, if the
defendant moves to dismiss the state court prosecution on the ground
that it violates the double jeopardy clause of the United States
Constitution, his motion should be

(A) granted, since both the prosecutions resulted from the same

transaction.

(B) granted, since the supervisor did not have probable cause for the

search.

(C) denied, since he has not yet been placed in jeopardy in the federal

court.

(D) denied, since the two prosecutions are not by the same sovereign.

61. Because he was a professional thief, the defendant owned a skeleton

key that could be used to open many different locks. One evening, when
he knew that the victim was away on vacation, the defendant went to
her home for the purpose of stealing cash that he believed was hidden
inside. While he was trying unsuccessfully to use his skeleton key to
open the victim's door, the defendant was arrested by a police officer.
In fact, the victim had placed her cash in a bank safety deposit box
before going on vacation, and her house contained nothing of value.

If charged with violating a statute that makes it a crime to “possess any

481

skeleton key with the intent to use it for the purpose of committing an
unlawful entry onto the property of another,” he should be found

(A) guilty, because the statute was designed to protect the public

against professional thieves.

(B) guilty, because he possessed a skeleton key with the intent to use it

for the purpose of committing an unlawful entry.

(C) not guilty, because the crime defined by the statute is merged into

the crime of attempted burglary.

(D) not guilty, because to convict him would be to punish him merely

for having a guilty mind.

62. A statute provides that “If the death of any person proximately results

from the commission of or attempt to commit any misdemeanor or non-
forcible felony, the person committing said misdemeanor or non-
forcible felony shall be guilty of third degree manslaughter.”

Because he had been convicted three times of driving while under the
influence of alcohol, the defendant's driving license was revoked. One
night, while driving home from a party, the defendant lost control of
his automobile and collided head-on with a vehicle traveling in the
other direction. Two occupants of the other car were killed. The
defendant was charged with driving without a license, which was a
misdemeanor, and with third degree manslaughter under the above
statute. Should the court find the defendant guilty of third degree
manslaughter?

(A) No, because driving without a license is not malum in se.

(B) Yes, because the deaths were proximately caused by his operation

of a motor vehicle without a license.

(C) Yes, because driving while intoxicated is a dangerous act.

(D) Yes, because he knew or should have known that driving without a

license could result in loss of life.

63. A student and the defendant were college students who needed money.
One night, the student suggested that they hold up a local convenience
store. When the defendant told her that she was afraid to get involved
in a robbery, the student offered to go into the store alone if the
defendant would wait outside in the car with the engine running so that
they could make a getaway after the robbery. The defendant agreed on

482

the condition that they split the take. The following day, they went
together to a sporting goods store, where the student purchased a
shotgun. That night, the defendant drove the student to the convenience
store and waited in the parking lot with the engine running. The student
went into the store with the shotgun hidden in a paper bag. Once inside,
she pointed it at the store clerk and made him give her the contents of
the cash register. Then she ran out to the car. When the defendant saw
the student running toward the car, she became frightened and drove
away without waiting for the student.

The defendant is guilty of

(A) conspiracy only.

(B) robbery only.

(C) conspiracy and robbery.

(D) either conspiracy or robbery, but not both.

64. In which of the following fact situations is the defendant LEAST likely

to be properly convicted of murder?

(A) The defendant came home to find his wife lying on the floor of their
apartment semi-conscious and severely bruised. When he asked her
what happened, she said that their neighbor had raped and beaten
her. The following morning, the defendant hid behind some bushes
waiting for the neighbor to leave his home. When the neighbor
stepped out of his door, the defendant, intending to kill him, shot
him, causing his death.

(B) A state law required every motor vehicle registered within the state

to be covered by a valid policy of liability insurance. The
defendant was operating a vehicle for which no liability insurance
policy had been issued when he struck a pedestrian, who later died
of the resulting injuries.

(C) The defendant placed a small quantity of ant poison in a cup of

coffee that he was serving to a date. He did not intend to cause any
serious injury, but he hoped that the poison would make her slightly
ill so that he could induce her to spend the night in his apartment
rather than to go home. His date drank the coffee and died as a
result.

(D) The defendant's daughter was suffering from a lingering, incurable,

483

fatal disease. One day, while the defendant was visiting her in the
hospital, she screamed and writhed in pain. Wanting to end her
suffering, the defendant placed a pillow over her face and held it
there until she died of suffocation.

65. A rare migratory bird is protected by international treaty. For this
reason, hunting of the bird is restricted to seasons fixed by a law
known as the Protection Act. Until recently, the Act permitted hunting
of the bird only during the months of March and April. The law was
changed last year, however, to permit bird hunting during the additional
months of May and June.

The defendant did not know that the law fixing the hunting season had
been changed. Because he did not like to compete with other hunters,
he planned to go bird hunting in May, believing that the season ended
in March. He invited his friend to join him, but the friend refused. The
friend, who was also unaware that the law had been changed,
informed a game warden about his conversation with the defendant.
The defendant went bird hunting on May 15. He shot at several birds
and missed before he succeeded in killing one of them. As soon as he
did, the game warden arrested the defendant. If the defendant is
charged with attempting to violate the Protection Act, which of the
following would be his most effective argument in defense?

(A) He actually succeeded in killing a bird prior to his arrest.

(B) The act that he intended to commit was not a crime.

(C) The friend was in pari delicto with the defendant because he was

unaware that the law had been changed.

(D) The attempted crime merged with the completed act.

66. The defendant had suspected for some time that his wife was unfaithful
to him. One night, when she came home later than usual, the defendant
confronted her, demanding to know where she had been. Tearfully, the
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
wife confessed that she had been out with a male friend and that she
had sexual intercourse with him. The defendant flew into a rage,
striking the wife repeatedly about the face and head with his clenched
fist. The following day, the wife died as a result of the injuries that the
defendant had inflicted. The defendant was subsequently charged with
murder. At the defendant's trial, his attorney asserted that, under the
circumstances, the defendant should not be convicted of any crime
more serious than voluntary manslaughter.

484

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Which of the following would be the prosecuting attorney's most
effective argument in response to that assertion?

(A) The defendant's conduct indicated an intent to kill the wife.

(B) The defendant's conduct indicated an intent to inflict great bodily

harm on the wife.

(C) The defendant did not catch the wife in flagrante delicto.

(D) In the defendant's position, a person of ordinary temperament

would not have become angry enough to lose normal self-control.

67. Because of a series of early morning burglaries that had been

committed in a suburban neighborhood, police officers assigned to
patrol the area were instructed to stop and question all persons
traveling through the neighborhood between the hours of 2 A.M. and 5
A.M. One morning at 3:30 A.M., a police officer noticed the defendant
running along a street in the area. The officer pulled his patrol car
against the curb and ordered the defendant to stop. The defendant said,
“What for? Am I under arrest?”

The officer responded, “No. I just want to talk to you.” The officer got
out of the car and opened the back door, pointing his finger at the back
seat. When the defendant got into the back of the patrol car, the officer
said, “Now, I think you'd better tell me why you're running here at this
hour.”

The defendant said, “I guess you already know. I just broke into a
house around the corner.”

The officer arrested the defendant, who was subsequently charged
with burglary. At the trial, two witnesses testified that they saw the
defendant leaving the burglarized house shortly before his arrest. In
addition, the prosecution offered the testimony of the officer regarding
his conversation with the defendant in the back of the patrol car. The
defendant moved to exclude evidence of his statement.

Which of the following would be the prosecution's most effective
argument in response to the defendant's motion?

(A) Independent evidence tends to establish that the defendant did

commit the burglary with which he is charged.

485

(B) The defendant was not in custody at the time of the conversation.

(C) The defendant was not a suspect at the time of the conversation.

(D) The officer's questioning of the defendant was part of a routine

investigation.

68. The defendant was invited to a party at the home of the homeowner.
Because he wanted to help make the party a success, the defendant
purchased fireworks and brought them to the party. A state statute
requires that any person engaging in the use of fireworks have a license
and provides that the license may be issued only upon successful
completion of a safety course conducted by the fire department.
Although the defendant had never completed the safety course and had
no license to engage in the use of fireworks, he believed that he was
competent to do so without causing any danger. During the party, the
defendant set off some of the fireworks in the homeowner's backyard
with the homeowner's consent. Although the defendant acted
reasonably, one of them exploded prematurely, causing a fire that
completely destroyed the homeowner's home.

If the defendant is charged with arson, he should be found

(A) guilty, because he violated the statute requiring a license for the use

of fireworks.

(B) guilty, because the fire resulted from his conduct.

(C) not guilty, because the homeowner consented to the defendant's use

of the fireworks.

(D) not guilty, because the defendant did not intend damage to the

homeowner's home.

69. Because he was convicted of driving while intoxicated, the defendant's
driver's license was suspended. One day, he made a series of repairs
to the engine of his car. That night, after coming home from a party, the
defendant decided to test his car by driving it on a quiet residential
street on the outskirts of town. Traveling north toward an intersection,
he accelerated until he was driving at a speed of 100 miles per hour.
The victim, who was driving west, proceeded across the intersection
in violation of a red traffic signal light. The defendant saw the victim's
car, but because of the speed at which the defendant was traveling, was
unable to avoid striking it. The victim was killed in the collision. A
statute in the jurisdiction provides “No person shall operate a motor

486

vehicle on any public road or highway in this state unless such person
shall be the holder of a valid driving license. Violation of this section
shall be punishable by a maximum of 30 days in the county jail.”

If the defendant is convicted of the murder of the victim, it will most
likely be because

(A) driving while intoxicated is evidence of culpable negligence.

(B) his speed was evidence of a wanton disregard for human life.

(C) the jurisdiction applies the misdemeanor-manslaughter rule.

(D) the victim's death resulted from the defendant's unlicensed

operation of a motor vehicle.

70. When the owner of a hardware store went away on vacation, she left
her assistant in charge of the store. One day, while the assistant was
alone in the store, the defendant entered and pointed a realistic-looking
toy pistol at the assistant, demanding all the money in the cash register.
The assistant believed that the pistol in the defendant's hand was real
and complied with the defendant's demand because he was afraid that
if he did not, the defendant would shoot him.

The following day, the owner returned from her vacation. When the
assistant told her about the holdup, the owner became so upset that she
suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died.

The jurisdiction has a statute that provides that “Any person who
causes the death of another human being with the intent to cause such
death or in the course of committing a dangerous felony shall be guilty
of murder.” If the defendant is charged with the murder of the owner,
he should be found

(A) guilty, because robbery is a dangerous felony.

(B) guilty, because it was foreseeable that the robbery would result in

the death of the owner.

(C) not guilty, because the owner's death did not occur while the

defendant was committing a dangerous felony.

(D) not guilty, because the toy pistol that the defendant used could not

foreseeably have inflicted an injury upon another person.

71. Which of the following fact situations is the defendant's claim of

487

intoxication LEAST likely to be an effective defense?

(A) Charged with rape, the defendant asserts that immediately before
the act, he drank a great deal of liquor, and that as a result, he was
so intoxicated that he believed the victim to be his wife.

(B) Charged with murder, the defendant asserts that immediately before
she shot the victim, an unknown person put alcohol in her orange
juice without her knowledge, and that as a result she was so
intoxicated that she believed her gun to be a harmless toy.

(C) Charged with attempted robbery, the defendant asserts that at the

time she pointed her pistol at the victim and demanded money, she
was so intoxicated that she thought the victim was a friend of hers
and would know that she was joking.

(D) Charged with larceny of an automobile, the defendant asserts that
after injecting heroin into his bloodstream, he was so intoxicated
that he believed the automobile to be his own.

72. In which of the following fact situations is the defendant most likely to

be convicted of criminally receiving stolen property?

(A) After a woman was arrested for car theft, the district attorney

offered to let her plead guilty to a lesser offense in return for her
cooperation in the apprehension of the defendant. At the district
attorney's request, the woman offered to sell the defendant the car
that she had been caught stealing, telling the defendant that it was
stolen. The defendant agreed to purchase it for $300 and was
arrested as he handed the cash to the woman.

(B) A man told the defendant that the police were after him for stealing

a car, and that he wanted to get rid of the car as soon as possible.
When he offered to give the car to the defendant, the defendant
said, “Give it to my brother, but don't tell him it's stolen.” The man
gave the car to the defendant's brother without telling him that it
was stolen.

(C) An undercover police officer contacted the defendant saying, “Are

you interested in buying stolen cars?” The defendant said, “If the
price is right, I'll take all you can get.” Requisitioning a car from
the police department's property division, the officer showed it to
the defendant, telling him that the car was stolen. The defendant
agreed to purchase the car and was arrested as he handed cash to

488

the officer.

(D) Intending to make a fraudulent claim under his automobile theft

insurance policy, a man sold his car to the defendant, telling him
that the car was stolen. When the man was subsequently arrested
and charged with insurance fraud, he told the police about the
circumstances of his sale to the defendant, who was then charged
with receiving stolen property.

73. After observing the defendant for several weeks, police officers

concluded that he was engaged in the illegal sale of a dangerous drug.
Two officers obtained a warrant and searched the defendant's kitchen
while the defendant was present. Finding an ounce of the substance, the
officers arrested the defendant and advised him of his rights. While
driving to the police station, one officer said to the other, “I'll bet the
defendant has the rest of the drugs stashed somewhere. If some kids get
their hands on it, it could kill them. Then we'll have the SOB on a
murder rap.”

The defendant, who overheard the officer's statement from the back of
the police car, said, “Wait, I've got 10 pounds of the stuff hidden in the
tool shed behind my garage.” The officers returned to the defendant's
house and found the rest of the drugs in the tool shed. The defendant
was charged with violating a statute that made it a felony to possess
more than eight ounces of drug. Prior to trial, the defendant moved to
suppress the drugs found in his tool shed.

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it were the
only one true, would provide the prosecution with its most effective
opposition to the defendant's motion?

(A) When he told the officers where to find the drugs, the defendant
fully understood his Fifth Amendment right to remain silent.

(B) The officers were unaware that the defendant could overhear their

conversation from the back of the police car.

(C) The defendant's statement about the location of the drugs was

voluntary.

(D) The search of the defendant's kitchen and the arrest of the defendant

for possession of one ounce of drugs were lawful.

74. The defendant was employed as store manager by a retailer of tools

489

and equipment. One day, as part of her duties, the defendant was re-
arranging merchandise in the storeroom while examining store
inventory records. After moving a gasoline-powered lawnmower to a
position next to the rear door inside the storeroom, the defendant
discovered that the lawnmower was not listed in the inventory records.
Realizing that the lawnmower would therefore not be missed, the
defendant decided to steal it. She planned to take the mower out onto
the loading dock behind the store just before the store closed, and from
there to put the mower in her car after the store closed. Before
removing it from the storeroom, however, the defendant changed her
mind, leaving it where she had placed it and adding it to the store
inventory list.

Of which of the following crimes may the defendant be properly
convicted?

(A) Larceny only.

(B) Embezzlement only.

(C) Larceny and embezzlement.

(D) Neither larceny nor embezzlement.

75. The defendant and victim, both scientists working on a new laser gun
for the military, were drinking in a bar when they got into an argument
about the merits of their work. The two men got off their bar stools and
started shoving each other. The victim reached into his pocket and
started to take out his cellphone saying, “You know what? I've actually
got a laser gun to work and now you are dead!” The victim had an app
on his phone that made a sound like a laser charging up. The victim
turned on the sound while the cellphone was still in his pocket.
Because the defendant was intoxicated, he mistook the glow of the
cellphone screen and the noise as the charging of a real laser gun. He
grabbed a glass from the bar, shattered it, and then stabbed the victim.
The victim then bled to death. The defendant was charged with murder.
At trial, the defense showed that the defendant genuinely but
unreasonably believed that the victim was about to shoot him with a
laser gun. Consequently, the defendant claimed self-defense. In the
majority of states, if the court believes the defendant's claim regarding
the circumstances of the victim's death, the defendant's self-defense
claim will result in the defendant being found

(A) not guilty of any crime.

490

(B) guilty of murder.

(C) guilty of voluntary manslaughter.

(D) guilty of depraved heart murder.

76. The defendant was charged with first degree murder under a statute that
defines that crime as “the deliberate and premeditated unjustified
killing of a human being.” At his trial, the defendant offered the
testimony of a psychiatrist who attempted to testify that the defendant
had a violent temper and that, at the time of the killing, the defendant
was so enraged that he was not in control of his acts.

In a jurisdiction that has adopted only the M'Naghten test of insanity, is
the testimony of the psychiatrist admissible?

(A) Yes, because it tends to establish that the defendant was insane at

the time of his act.

(B) Yes, because it tends to establish that the killing was not

“deliberate and premeditated.”

(C) No, because it does not tend to establish insanity under the

M'Naghten rule.

(D) No, because in a prosecution for criminal homicide, provocation

should be measured by an objective standard.

77. A state police officer was investigating a series of car thefts. A federal
officer was assigned to assist under a federal statute that permits the
U.S. Department of Justice to aid local police departments in
investigating certain crimes. Because of the defendant's criminal
record, the state police officer went to the defendant's home and
questioned him regarding the recent thefts. During the course of the
questioning, the state police officer drew her gun and threatened to
shoot the defendant if the defendant did not immediately admit his guilt.
The defendant confessed to the thefts and identified his partner. The
state police officer left the defendant, saying, “I'll be back for you
later.” Then, after obtaining the necessary warrant, the state police
officer arrested the defendant's partner.

Unaware of the state police officer's activity, the federal officer
examined a stolen vehicle that had been recovered by the state police.
Using a U.S. Department of Justice computer, the federal officer

491

identified fingerprints as the defendant's. The federal officer obtained
the necessary warrant and arrested the defendant. The defendant's
partner and the defendant were charged in a state court with car theft.

The defendant moves to dismiss the prosecution on the ground that his
constitutional rights were violated by the state police officer. His
motion should be

(A) granted, because the state police officer failed to advise him of his

Miranda rights.

(B) granted, because the state police officer threatened to shoot him if

he did not confess to the crimes.

(C) denied, because the officers were employed by different

sovereigns.

(D) denied, because his arrest resulted from an independent

investigation by the federal officer.

78. The defendant's roommate heard of someone in a nearby town who
bought stolen cars. Because they needed money to pay their rent, the
roommate proposed to the defendant that they steal a car and sell it.
The defendant agreed, and the two of them went out immediately
looking for a car to steal. The roommate got behind the wheel of a car
they found and drove the car while the defendant sat beside him. Later,
the defendant climbed into the backseat and went to sleep.

While the defendant was sleeping, the roommate thought that he
noticed a police car following them. Hoping to avoid contact with the
police, he turned off onto a road that led into a neighboring state.
Shortly after crossing the state line, the roommate and the defendant
were arrested by federal police. They were subsequently charged in a
federal court with violating the Dyer Act, which makes the interstate
transportation of stolen vehicles a federal crime, and with conspiracy
to violate the Dyer Act.

On the charge of violating the Dyer Act, the defendant should be found

(A) not guilty, because he could not have anticipated that the roommate

would drive the car across the state line.

(B) not guilty, because he did not agree to transport the car across a

state line.

492

(C) not guilty, because transportation of the car across the state line
was not necessary to the success of the criminal enterprise.

(D) guilty.

79. The defendant, an attorney, was vice president of a corporation that

made children's pajamas. After several children were burned to death
while wearing the corporation's product, both the defendant and the
corporation were charged with criminal negligence. After placing the
defendant under arrest and informing her of the charge against her, the
arresting officer said, “Now your answers may be used against you, so
you don't have to give any, and you're entitled to an attorney.” The
defendant said, “I am an attorney,” and answered questions that the
officer then put to her regarding her corporate duties. At her trial, the
defendant moved to exclude evidence of her answers to those
questions, although she conceded that her statement was not coerced.

Read the summaries of the decisions in the four cases (A–D) below.
Which is most applicable as a precedent?

(A) After hearing gunshots, a police officer ran toward the sound.

Finding the victim lying dead in a pool of blood, the officer asked a
group of persons who were standing nearby what happened. The
defendant, who was among the bystanders, replied, “I shot the son
of a bitch.” At the defendant's murder trial, the court denied a
motion to exclude the officer's testimony regarding the defendant's
statement.

(B) A recently arrived immigrant from Southeast Asia was arrested for
burglary. After the arresting officer read him his Miranda rights,
she asked, “Do you understand what I just said?” The defendant
replied, “Yes. I break in the house for steal.” The defendant's
pretrial motion to exclude evidence of his confession was granted.

(C) Following a series of assaults, police officers went to the

defendant's home. The officers told the defendant that she was not
under arrest, but that they would appreciate her cooperation in
answering their questions. The defendant said, “I'm innocent, and
I'm willing to prove it by standing in a lineup.” She then
accompanied the police officers to the police station where two
assault victims picked her out of a lineup. At the defendant's trial
on a charge of assault, her motion to exclude evidence of the lineup
identification was denied.

493

(D) When the defendant was awakened at 3 A.M. by the sound of

knocking on his front door, he opened it to find three uniformed
police officers. One of them said, “We have reason to believe that
there is stolen property in your house. Do you mind if we search?”
The defendant let the officers in. During the course of their search,
they seized a stereo set that had been stolen from a local appliance
store. At his trial for criminally receiving stolen property, the
defendant's motion to suppress use of the stereo as evidence was
granted.

80. After a man was arrested for selling large quantities of illegal

substances, he agreed to assist the police in return for a promise that
the charges against him would be reduced. In furtherance of their
agreement, the police set the man up in the used car business and
spread the rumor that the man dealt in stolen vehicles. Subsequently, a
woman came to the man's lot offering to sell the man a stolen car. After
conferring with a police officer assigned to the investigation, the man
purchased the car from the woman. When he had done so, the police
arrested the woman and notified the car's owner that it had been
recovered. The following day, the defendant came to the man's lot and
said that he wished to purchase a stolen car. At the direction of an
undercover police officer, the man sold the defendant the car that he
had purchased from the woman.

If the defendant is charged with receiving stolen property, which of the
following would be his most effective argument in defense?

(A) The defendant was entrapped by an agent of the police.

(B) The car that the defendant purchased was not stolen property.

(C) The man's cooperation with the police was coerced.

(D) The police cannot bargain away a defendant's rights in an

agreement with a third person.

81. The defendant and his girlfriend had been living together and sharing a
bedroom for five months when they began arguing regularly. After one
such argument, the defendant stormed out of the apartment. Angry at
him, the girlfriend called the police to report that the defendant was in
possession of nearly a kilogram of marijuana. Two officers came to
talk to the girlfriend in the apartment. When they asked how she knew
that the defendant had that much marijuana, the girlfriend said, “I've
seen it. He keeps it in our closet. Would you like to look?” One of the

494

officers said that they would, and the girlfriend led them to the closet in
the bedroom that she shared with the defendant. When the girlfriend
opened the closet door, a plastic bag containing one and one-half
pounds of marijuana fell from the shelf. One of the officers took it.
Later, the defendant was arrested and charged with the unlawful
possession of a dangerous drug. If the defendant makes a timely motion
to suppress use of the marijuana as evidence, which of the following
would be the prosecution's most effective argument in opposition to his
motion?

(A) Their conversation with the girlfriend gave the police officers

probable cause to believe that there was marijuana in the closet.

(B) Failure to seize the marijuana immediately might have given the
defendant time to dispose of it before the police officers could
obtain a search warrant.

(C) The girlfriend invited the police officers to search the closet.

(D) The marijuana was in plain view when the closet door was opened.

82. The defendant was waiting for a bus on a street corner shortly after

midnight when three young men approached him and demanded that he
give them some money. Fearing that they would attack and injure him,
the defendant drew a pistol from his pocket. The three men began
running away, but the defendant shot each of them in the back, seriously
injuring two and killing the third. As a result, the defendant was
charged with two counts of aggravated assault and one count of murder.
By the time a grand jury was convened, the incident had received a
great deal of media attention, several newspapers referring to the
defendant as “The Vigilante Hero.” The defendant presented no
evidence to the grand jury, but after hearing the prosecution's evidence,
the grand jury refused to indict. Following the proceeding, the
prosecuting attorney stated that she believed that the grand jury's
decision resulted from publicity surrounding the incident, and that she
intended to bring the matter before another grand jury. Three weeks
later, a second grand jury issued an indictment against the defendant. If
the defendant moves to dismiss the indictment on the ground that it
violates his rights under the Double Jeopardy Clause of the United
States Constitution, his motion should be

(A) granted, because the first grand jury's failure to indict is res

judicata.

495

(B) granted, if the charges brought before the second grand jury were
identical to the charges brought before the first grand jury.

(C) denied, unless the decision of the first grand jury was motivated by

sympathy or undue prejudice.

(D) denied, because no trial has begun.

83. The defendant fired a pistol through the ceiling of her apartment

because the neighbors had refused several requests to stop making so
much noise at their party. She did not intend to hit anyone with the
bullet, but she hoped that the shot would frighten her neighbors and
chill the atmosphere. After passing through the floor of the apartment
above the defendant's, the bullet struck a piece of furniture and
ricocheted. It struck the victim, lodging in his shoulder and injuring
him.

An ambulance was called to transport the victim to a hospital for
treatment. Because the ambulance driver was driving negligently, the
ambulance was involved in a collision that resulted in the victim's
death. If the defendant is acquitted on a charge of murdering the victim,
it will most likely be because the court finds that

(A) the defendant did not intend to strike anyone with the bullet.

(B) the victim's death was proximately caused by the negligence of the

ambulance driver.

(C) the defendant was privileged to abate a nuisance by self-help.

(D) the defendant's conduct did not show a wanton disregard for human

life.

84. The victim and the defendant were roommates until they began arguing
bitterly. During one argument, the victim moved out of the apartment
that they shared. As she left, she said, “I'm going to get even with you
for all the grief you've caused me.” The following day, the defendant's
friend told the defendant that the victim had purchased a gun. The
friend also said that the victim told her that she was going to shoot the
defendant the next time she saw her. As a result, the defendant began
carrying a loaded pistol. Several days later, realizing that she still had
the key to the defendant's apartment, the victim went back to return it.
The defendant was leaving her apartment when she saw the victim
walking toward her. As the victim reached into her pocket for the
apartment key, the defendant drew her pistol and shot the victim,

496

aiming to hit her in the chest. The bullet grazed the victim's shoulder,
inflicting a minor injury. The victim immediately drew her own pistol
and shot the defendant with it, striking her in the thigh and inflicting a
serious injury.

If the defendant is charged with attempted murder, which of the
following would be her most effective argument in defense?

(A) The victim's injury was not serious enough to result in death.

(B) The defendant did not succeed in striking the victim in the chest as

she intended.

(C) It was reasonable for the defendant to believe that the victim was

reaching into her pocket for a gun.

(D) The force that the defendant used was not deadly.

85. Two men were members of a militant political group. As a protest

against the use of harmful agricultural chemicals, they planned to burn
down a factory that produced such chemicals. To be certain that no
persons would be injured in the explosion, they chose a time when they
knew that the factory was closed. At 10 P.M., they broke into the factory
and wired a fire bomb to a timer that was set to detonate at 11 P.M. At
10:45 P.M., they telephoned the local police and told them that the
factory would be bombed in 15 minutes, warning them to evacuate any
persons who might happen to be in the area. At 11 P.M., the bomb
detonated, causing flames that totally destroyed the factory. Two
transients who had broken into the factory at 10:30 P.M. in search of a
place to sleep were killed by the blast.

If the two men are charged with murder, they should be found

(A) not guilty, because they did not desire or know that their act would

result in the death of a human being.

(B) not guilty, because the deaths of the transients were totally
independent of their purpose in blowing up the factory.

(C) guilty, because it was not reasonable to believe that the police

could successfully evacuate the area in 15 minutes.

(D) guilty, because the deaths resulted from their commission of a

dangerous felony.

86. There were three employees and three customers in a bank when the

497

defendant entered and drew a pistol from his pocket. Waving the pistol
in the air, the defendant shouted, “Freeze! This is a holdup!”
Threatening to shoot him if he did not obey, the defendant ordered one
of the tellers to open the vault. After the teller had done so, the
defendant directed everyone present to lie down on the floor. The
defendant then removed all the cash from the vault and left the bank,
forcing one of the customers at gunpoint to accompany him into his car
as a hostage. After driving for about 15 minutes, the defendant opened
the car door and permitted the hostage to get out.

Of how many kidnappings may the defendant properly be convicted?

(A) Zero.

(B) One.

(C) Two.

(D) Six.

87. Undercover police officers received an anonymous tip that the

defendant was engaged in buying and selling stolen cars. They decided
to catch the defendant by pretending to be criminals. One of the officers
arranged to meet the defendant, telling the defendant that his friend was
looking for a buyer for stolen cars. When the defendant said that he
might be interested in purchasing one for resale, the officer offered to
put up half the money and to buy it with him as a partner. The defendant
agreed, and the officer gave him $1,000 in cash as his share. The
officer had requisitioned the money from the police department for that
purpose and had it marked in a way that would permit its subsequent
identification. The officer then introduced the defendant to the other
officer, saying that the other officer was a car thief. The other officer
offered to sell the defendant a car that he said he had stolen, but which
he had actually requisitioned from the police department for that
purpose. After agreeing on a price for the car, the defendant paid the
other officer with the marked money that the first officer had given him.
The officers immediately placed the defendant under arrest.

The defendant is charged with criminally receiving stolen property.
Which of the following would be his most effective argument in
defense against that charge?

(A) The car that the defendant purchased from the other officer had

been requisitioned from the police department.

498

(B) The money that the defendant used to purchase the car from the

other officer had been requisitioned from the police department.

(C) The two officers entrapped the defendant into purchasing the car.

(D) The anonymous tip received by the officers was not sufficient to

give them probable cause to believe 
that the defendant was guilty of a crime.

88. Four weeks after breaking her engagement with her boyfriend, the
defendant was angry because her boyfriend still had not returned a
stereo that he had borrowed from her. She went to his house one night
to demand its immediate return. When she got there, the boyfriend was
not at home and his door was unlocked. The defendant entered to look
for her stereo but could not find it. While searching, she noticed that
the boyfriend had a new couch. Thinking that the couch was worth as
much as her stereo, she tore open one of its cushions and set it on fire
before leaving. The fire destroyed the couch completely and charred
the walls and ceiling of the room, although the house itself was not
seriously damaged. The defendant was subsequently prosecuted.
Statutes in the jurisdiction adopt the common law definitions of
burglary, larceny, and arson.

If the defendant is charged with burglary and arson, she can properly
be convicted of

(A) burglary only.

(B) arson only.

(C) burglary and arson.

(D) neither burglary nor arson.

89. After being arrested and charged with bribery, the defendant spent one
night in a detention cell at the county jail. The informant, who had been
arrested on a charge unrelated to the defendant's case, was assigned to
the same detention cell as the defendant. Before putting the informant in
the cell, the police asked for his help. The following morning, the
defendant and the informant were released on bail. Leaving the jail
together, they stopped for breakfast and chatted about the charges
against them. During the course of their conversation, the defendant
told the informant that he was in fact guilty of bribery, and that he had
paid unlawful fees to several public officials. At the defendant's trial,
the informant was called as a prosecution witness. The informant

499

stated that he spoke to the defendant about the bribery case because the
police had offered to drop charges against him in return for help in
getting evidence against the defendant. The informant then attempted to
testify to the conversation in which the defendant admitted his guilt. If
the defendant's attorney objected and moved to exclude the testimony
on the ground that the defendant was not warned that anything he said to
the informant might be used against him, should the informant's
testimony regarding the defendant's admission of guilt be excluded on
that ground?

(A) Yes, because the police asked for the informant's help before

putting him in a cell with the defendant.

(B) Yes, because at the time of the informant's conversation with the
defendant, the informant was acting as an agent of the police.

(C) No, because the prosecution may not bargain away the rights of one

defendant in a deal with another.

(D) No, because the defendant was not in police custody when he

admitted his guilt to the informant.

90. As a result of mental illness, the defendant was obsessed with the

delusion that his wife, the victim, was building a bomb in the basement
of their house, and that she was going to use it to blow up the world.
Because he twice tried to kill the victim, he had been confined to a
state mental hospital on two occasions. After his most recent release
from confinement, the defendant discussed his belief with the police,
but they did not take him seriously. Although he knew that he would be
imprisoned for murder if he was caught, he pushed the victim down a
flight of stairs, thinking that he would save the world by killing her.
The victim died of injuries that she sustained in the fall.

If the defendant is prosecuted for the murder of the victim, his most
effective argument in defense would be that, as a result of mental
illness,

(A) he did not know that his act was wrong.

(B) he lacked criminal intent.

(C) he was unable to control his conduct.

(D) he did not appreciate the nature and quality of his act.

91. A teacher at a privately operated high school found an anonymous note

500

on his desk stating that the writer had heard through the grapevine that
the defendant, one of the teacher's students, was unlawfully selling
drugs to other students. The teacher immediately showed the note to the
school administrator, who ordered the defendant to report to her office.
When the defendant did so, the administrator reached into the
defendant's trouser pocket, where she found 23 capsules containing
drugs. The defendant was subsequently prosecuted for unlawful
possession of a controlled substance. In an appropriate proceeding, the
defendant moved to suppress evidence of the capsules found by the
administrator on the ground that she had violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by searching him.

Which of the following is the most effective argument in opposition to
the defendant's motion?

(A) The administrator was not working for the government.

(B) The special relationship between a high school administrator and a

student implies the student's consent to a search by the
administrator.

(C) Special concern for the well-being of young people justifies a

warrantless search of a student suspected of selling drugs to other
students.

(D) The administrator had probable cause to believe that the defendant

was in possession of dangerous drugs.

92. A teenager, who was 15 years of age, entered the sporting goods

department and asked the employee to sell her ammunition for a pistol.
The employee placed a box of ammunition on the counter and said,
“That'll be $9, please.” The employee usually worked in another
department. Realizing that she did not have any money with her, the
teenager left the store without the ammunition, saying that she would
return for it later. A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows:
“Any person who sells ammunition for a firearm to a person below the
age of 16 years shall be guilty of a felony. The employer of any person
who violates this section during the course of such employment shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $250. It
shall not be a defense to a violation of this section that the defendant
had no knowledge of the age of the person to whom the sale was
made.”

501

The teenager did not return to the store. If the employee is charged
with attempting to violate the above statute, which of the following
would be the employee's most effective argument in defense against
that charge?

(A) The employee did not know of the statute or its provisions.

(B) The employee did not know that the teenager was below the age of

16 years.

(C) The owner should be prosecuted under the statute, since she was

the employee's employer.

(D) The employee is customarily employed in another department and
should not be held to the same standard as a person in the business
of selling firearms and ammunition.

93. The defendant and his ex-girlfriend had hated each other for years. One
day, the defendant waited outside his ex-girlfriend's office building
with a loaded pistol, planning to kill his ex-girlfriend. When the
defendant saw the victim leave the building, he believed the victim
was his ex-girlfriend and shot at her, aiming to kill her. The victim was
struck by the bullet and died of the bullet wound. If the defendant is
charged with the victim's murder in a jurisdiction that applies the
common law definition and the doctrine of transferred intent, the
defendant should be found

(A) guilty, because the jurisdiction applies the doctrine of transferred

intent.

(B) guilty, because the defendant intended to bring about the death of

the person at whom he shot.

(C) not guilty.

(D) guilty, because the defendant created an unreasonable risk that a

human being would die.

94. Federal agents arrested the defendant and others pursuant to a warrant
issued by a federal court. At the time of the arrest, federal officers
seized a quarter-ounce of heroin that was in the defendant's possession.
As a result, the defendant was convicted of violating a federal statute
that prohibits the possession of heroin with the intent to engage in
interstate distribution thereof. Following her conviction in the federal
court, federal officials offered to permit the state to use the seized
heroin as evidence in a state prosecution of the defendant. The

502

defendant was subsequently charged in a state court with conspiracy to
sell a controlled substance in violation of a state statute. If the
defendant moves to dismiss the state prosecution on the sole ground
that it violates her rights under the double jeopardy clause of the
United States Constitution, her motion should be

(A) granted, because the same evidence that was used to convict her in
the federal prosecution will be used to convict her in the state
prosecution.

(B) granted, because the crime of conspiracy is a lesser offense that

was constructively included in the federal prosecution.

(C) denied, because she is being charged in the state court with the

violation of a different statute than that which she was convicted of
violating in the federal court.

(D) granted, because a person may not be prosecuted by different

sovereigns for the same offense.

95. After the defendant entered a tavern and sat on a stool at the bar, a

friend sitting beside him said, “Did you ever have this special drink?”
The defendant ordered the special drink, although he had never heard
of it before. While he realized that the drink had some alcohol in it, he
was unaware that it was 90 percent alcohol. When the bartender
placed the drink in front of the defendant, the defendant drank it
quickly. A few moments later, the defendant fell off his bar stool
because he was overcome by the alcohol. He fell against an elderly
man, knocking him against the wall and causing the elderly man to
fracture several ribs. If the defendant is charged with committing a
criminal battery against the elderly man, which of the following
additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one true, would
provide the defendant with his most effective argument in defense?

(A) The defendant did not intend to become intoxicated by drinking the

drink.

(B) The defendant did not know that drinking the drink would cause him

to fall off the bar stool.

(C) The defendant did not intend to make contact with the elderly man.

(D) The defendant had never before been overcome by the alcohol in

one drink.

96. The defendant was the owner of a tavern. On two occasions in the

503

recent past, thieves entered the defendant's tavern after closing time
and stole several thousand dollars worth of liquor. In an attempt to
protect himself against further thefts, the defendant began sleeping in
the tavern at night with a loaded pistol by his side. One night, while on
his rounds, a police officer noticed that one of the defendant's windows
was open and climbed through the window to investigate. Hearing the
sound of someone moving about his tavern, the defendant stood up and
cocked his pistol. When the officer heard the sound and saw the outline
of a person standing by the bar with a pistol in his hand, the officer
shouted, “Drop that gun or I'll shoot!” The defendant and the officer
fired their pistols at each other. Each was struck by the other's bullet.

If the defendant is charged with attempted murder because of his
shooting of the officer, the court should find him

(A) not guilty, because the defendant reasonably believed that his life

was in danger.

(B) guilty, because deadly force is not permitted in defense of property.

(C) guilty, because the intent to kill or inflict great bodily harm can be

inferred from the defendant's conduct.

(D) guilty, because at the time of the shooting, the officer was a police

officer acting within the scope of his official duties.

97. The defendant and a bank robber had been in the same cell together

while serving time in prison. Soon after their release, the bank robber
asked the defendant to join him in robbing a bank. The defendant
refused, stating that he did not want to go back to prison. The bank
robber said he wouldn't use deadly force, then said that he would rob
the bank himself if the defendant would provide him with a place to
hide afterwards. The defendant agreed that the bank robber could hide
in the defendant's apartment following the robbery in return for one-
fourth of the proceeds of the robbery. The following day, the bank
robber robbed the bank. While he was attempting to leave the bank, a
security guard began shooting at him, and the bank robber fired back,
killing a bystander. One week later, the bank robber was arrested at the
defendant's apartment, where he had been hiding, and was charged
with robbery and felony murder.

The defendant was subsequently charged with felony murder on the
ground that he was an accomplice to the robbery committed by the

504

bank robber that resulted in the death of a bystander. The court should
find the defendant

(A) not guilty, because he was an accessory after the fact.

(B) not guilty, because he did not know that the bank robber was going

to use deadly force to accomplish the robbery.

(C) guilty, only if it was foreseeable that someone would be shot during

the course of the robbery.

(D) guilty, because an accomplice is responsible for all crimes

committed in furtherance of the crime to which he or she is an
accomplice.

98. After being advised by an informant that the defendant was growing

marijuana in a large field, two police officers flew over the field in an
airplane and observed marijuana growing there. Because of
particularly dense cloud formations, it was necessary for them to use
special equipment to photograph the field. The following day, the
officers drove to the field and looked through the barbed wire fence
that surrounded it. Although nothing was growing in the field, they
observed that something had recently been harvested. They also
observed a series of footprints leading to a barn located in the field.
After obtaining a search warrant, the officers entered the field and
searched the barn, where they found two suitcases containing
marijuana. The defendant was later arrested.

The defendant's attorney made an appropriate motion to exclude the
marijuana contained in the suitcases. Should the evidence be
excluded?

(A) Yes, because the police used special equipment to photograph the

field.

(B) No, because the reliability of the informant can be established.

(C) Yes, because it was reasonable for the defendant to believe that

nobody would look into his field.

(D) No, because the officers had a warrant to search the barn.

99. A statute prohibited the sale of liquor between the hours of midnight

and 8 A.M. When a customer came into the defendant's liquor store and
asked to buy a bottle of liquor, the defendant looked at the clock and
saw that it said five minutes past eleven, so he sold the liquor to the

505

customer. The defendant believed that the clock was correct and did
not realize that the previous day the state had changed from standard
time to daylight saving time. In fact, the correct time was five minutes
past midnight.

If the defendant is charged with attempting to violate the statute, he
should be found

(A) guilty, because he sold liquor between midnight and 8 A.M.

(B) guilty, because he should have known the actual time.

(C) guilty, because the statute did not require specific intent.

(D) not guilty, because he believed that the time was five minutes past

eleven.

100. The victim borrowed $50 and a watch worth an additional $50 from

the defendant. Although the defendant repeatedly requested that the
victim return the watch and the money, the victim refused to do so. The
defendant and the victim belonged to the same exercise club. One day,
while the victim was in the shower, the defendant opened the victim's
locker and took $100 from the victim's wallet, returning the wallet to
the locker. It was the defendant's intention to keep $50 of the money to
pay himself back for the money he had loaned the victim and to keep
the other $50 to pay himself for the watch that the victim had refused to
return. A statute in the jurisdiction adopts the common law definition
of larceny and provides that a larceny of $50 or less is a misdemeanor,
while a larceny of more than $50 is a felony. The defendant is guilty of

(A) one misdemeanor only.

(B) two misdemeanors only.

(C) a felony.

(D) no crime.

101. Because he wanted to run away with his mistress, a man decided to

murder his wife by poisoning her. He slipped a lethal dose of poison
into her morning coffee and went to work. When the wife came down
to the kitchen and drank it, she immediately fell facedown on the
counter. A few minutes later, the mistress came to the kitchen backdoor
and saw the wife facedown on the counter. The mistress thought the
wife was sleeping, but the wife was really about two hours away from
death by the poison. Believing this was her chance to kill the wife, the

506

mistress broke into the house and stabbed the wife in the back with a
cleaver. The wound would not have killed the wife except for the fact
that she was weakened by the poison. She died 10 minutes later,
although she would have lasted a few more hours if she hadn't been
stabbed.

May the mistress be held criminally liable for the murder?

(A) Yes, because the stabbing sped up the wife's death.

(B) Yes, because the mistress had unlawfully entered the house.

(C) No, because the wife would have died anyway based on the poison.

(D) No, because the stabbing could not have killed the wife on its own.

102. The defendant and two other men met while in prison and decided that

when they were released, they would rob a bank together. Soon after
their release, they planned the robbery, agreeing that the defendant
would steal and drive the getaway car and that the two other men
would commit the actual robbery. The defendant stole a car for the
robbery and brought it to one of the men's house, but the day before the
robbery was to be committed, the defendant was arrested for violating
the conditions of his parole and was returned to prison. The following
day, the two other men went ahead with the plan, entering the bank and
threatening to shoot the cashiers if they did not hand over all available
cash. A teller pushed a button that alerted the police, and the two men
were arrested before leaving the bank.

Of which of the following crimes is the defendant guilty?

(A) Attempted robbery.

(B) Conspiracy to commit robbery.

(C) Attempted robbery and conspiracy to commit robbery.

(D) No crime.

103. The public prosecutor had information that unlawful gambling

activities were being conducted at a tavern. She obtained a warrant for
the search by presenting an affidavit that stated that she had received
information regarding the illegal activities from an informant who had
observed the reported activities while present at the tavern. The
affidavit stated that the informant frequently gave information to the
police and prosecutor and that the information received from the

507

informant in the past had always been found to be accurate. It did not
give the name of the informant, however, because it stated that his
anonymity needed to be preserved both for his own protection and to
continue his effectiveness as an informant. The warrant was issued.

Upon searching the premises, the police found gambling records in a
cash drawer located behind the bar. In addition, the defendant, who
was in the tavern, was searched and found to be in possession of
unlawful gambling records.

The warrant was properly issued and executed with respect to the
tavern. The defendant was charged with gambling, and he moved to
suppress the use of gambling records found on his person. The court
should

(A) grant the motion, because the court that issued the warrant did not
have probable cause to believe that any customers in the tavern
were engaging in unlawful gambling activities.

(B) grant the motion, because the warrant did not properly identify the

persons to be searched.

(C) deny the motion, because a warrant that authorizes a search of

premises may also authorize the search of persons present on those
premises.

(D) deny the motion, because the fact that the defendant was found to be
in possession of unlawful gambling records corroborated the
information contained in the affidavit that the public prosecutor
submitted in support of the application for the warrant.

104. The defendant met a girl in a bar where both were drinking. Because

the defendant was too drunk to drive, the girl offered him a ride home.
In the girl's car, the girl consented to intercourse. A statute provided
that it was unlawful to engage in sexual intercourse with a female
under the age of 18 years, and the girl was 17 years old. If the
defendant believed that the girl was over the age of 18 years, is he
guilty of statutory rape?

(A) No, because he believed the girl to be over the age of 18 years.

(B) No, if the reasonable person who was not intoxicated would have

believed the girl to be over the age of 18 years.

(C) Yes, unless the girl assured him that she was over the age of 18

508

years.

(D) Yes, but only if the defendant realized that he was having

intercourse.

105. Three friends were hanging out while their parents were not home. The
first boy was 17 years of age; the girl and the second boy were each
15. Since the girl had engaged in sexual relations with several other
boys at the high school, she and the first boy secretly agreed that she
would try to seduce the second boy. The girl had some marijuana in
her purse, and she and the second boy smoked some of it. Soon,
however, the second boy's intoxication made him physically unable to
perform. A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “A person is guilty
of rape in the third degree when, being 17 years of age or more, he or
she engages in sexual intercourse with a person under the age of 16
years.”

Laws in the state define a conspiracy as “An agreement to commit a
crime between two or more persons with the specific intent to commit
a crime.” If the first boy is charged with conspiracy based on his
agreement with the girl regarding the seduction of the second boy, the
first boy's most effective argument in defense would be that

(A) the seduction of the second boy would not have been possible

without the girl's participation.

(B) the first boy did not commit any overt act that was likely to

accomplish the seduction of the second boy.

(C) the girl was unsuccessful in having intercourse with the second boy.

(D) intercourse between the girl and the second boy would not have

been a crime.

106. A store owner wanted to erect a new storage building so that he could

expand his business of selling diet food and health supplies. He was
afraid, however, that the building department would not issue him a
permit to begin construction. A building department clerk said that she
would make a false entry in the official records to indicate that a
permit had already been issued if the store owner would pay her $500.
The store owner agreed and said that he would bring the money the
following day. The next day, however, when the store owner went to
the clerk's office with $500, he was told that she had been fired.

509

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “Any person who shall give
or accept a fee not authorized by law as consideration for the act of
any public employee is guilty of bribery, a felony. Any person who
shall offer to commit a bribery is guilty of bribery in the second
degree, a felony.”

If the defendant is prosecuted for attempted bribery in the second
degree, the court should find him

(A) not guilty, because bribery in the second degree is an attempt crime,

and there can be no liability for attempting to attempt.

(B) not guilty, because it was the clerk who made the initial offer.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant committed bribery in the second

degree when he agreed to pay the clerk for altering the records, and
the attempt merged with that crime.

(D) guilty, because attempting to commit bribery in the second degree is

a lesser offense included in that crime.

107. Angry because her coworker had insulted her, the defendant decided to
get revenge. Because she worked for an exterminator, the defendant
had access to cans of a poison gas that was often used to kill termites
and other insects. She did not want to kill the coworker, so she
carefully read the user manual supplied by the manufacturer. The
manual said that the gas was not fatal to human beings, but that
exposure to it could cause serious ailments, including blindness and
permanent respiratory irritation. When she was sure that no one would
see her, the defendant brought a can of the gas to the parking lot and
released the poison gas into the coworker's car. At lunchtime, the
coworker and his friend sat together in the coworker's car. As a result
of their exposure to the gas in the car, the friend died and the coworker
became so ill that he was hospitalized for over a month.

If the defendant is charged with the attempted murder of the coworker,
she should be found

(A) guilty, because the coworker suffered a serious illness as the result
of a criminal act that she performed with intent to cause him great
bodily harm.

(B) guilty, because her intent to cause great bodily harm resulted in the

death of the friend.

510

(C) not guilty, because she did not intend to cause the death of any

person.

(D) not guilty, because the crime of attempted murder merges with the

crime of murder.

108. The defendant had been arraigned on a charge of burglarizing the home
of the victim. He was assigned a public defender and pleaded not
guilty, but because he was unable to post bail, he was in jail awaiting
trial. After the police received a warrant to do so, they had an
undercover police officer placed in the same cell as the defendant. The
officer was instructed not to question the defendant about the charge
against him.

While walking through the corridor of the jail, the defendant told the
officer that he had committed the burglary with which he was charged.
At trial, the officer testified to the conversation that he had with the
defendant in which the defendant admitted his guilt.

If the defendant's attorney objects to the testimony of the officer
regarding the statement that the defendant made to him in the corridor,
the objection should be

(A) sustained, because the statement was made to a police officer in the
absence of and without the consent of the defendant's attorney.

(B) sustained, because the officer entrapped the defendant into making

the statement.

(C) overruled, because the officer was placed in the defendant's cell

pursuant to a warrant.

(D) overruled, because the defendant made the statement voluntarily.

109. Two boys decided to kill another boy that they did not like. To do so,
they planned to steal the victim's asthma medication. As the two boys
were walking toward the victim's room, one of the boys decided not to
go through with the plan. Because he was afraid that the other boy
would make fun of him for chickening out, he said nothing to him about
his change of mind. Instead, saying that he needed to use the bathroom,
he ran away. The other boy then went into the victim's room by
himself, found the medicine, and threw the medicine away. Later that
night, the victim had an asthma attack and died because he was unable
to find his medicine.

511

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that persons the age of the two
boys are adults for the purposes of criminal liability.

If the boy who ran away is charged with the murder of the victim, a
court will probably find him

(A) guilty, because he and the other boy agreed to throw away the
victim's medicine in the hope that doing so would cause the
victim's death.

(B) guilty, because he aided and abetted in causing the victim's death.

(C) not guilty, because he did not physically participate in throwing

away the victim's medicine.

(D) not guilty, because he withdrew from the conspiracy before any

overt act was committed.

110. A man had just been released from prison after serving a three-year

term for aggravated assault. In need of money, he called his old friend,
the defendant, and asked whether the defendant would be interested in
joining the man in the robbery of a pawnshop. The defendant agreed,
but only after making the man promise that there would be no violence.
Upon the defendant's insistence, they carried realistic-looking toy guns.
When they entered the pawnshop, they drew their toy guns and ordered
the pawnshop owner to give them all the money in his cash register and
all the gems in his safe. The pawnshop owner took a gun from the safe
and shot the man, killing him. The pawnshop owner then aimed the
pistol at the defendant, who fled from the store. As the pawnshop
owner ran out into the street with his pistol in his hand, the defendant
jumped into the car that he and the man had left parked at the curb.
Speeding away from the scene without looking or caring where he was
going, the defendant accidentally struck a pedestrian, who died of her
injuries. By statute, the jurisdiction adopted the felony-murder rule.

If the defendant is charged with the murder of the pedestrian, the court
should find him

(A) guilty, because the pedestrian's death resulted from the defendant's

attempt to commit a robbery.

(B) guilty, because he drove the car in a criminally negligent manner.

(C) not guilty, because he was in reasonable fear for his own life when

attempting to flee in the automobile.

512

(D) not guilty, because the pedestrian's death did not occur during the

commission of a felony.

111. A nine-year-old girl fell into a public pool, striking her head against its
edge. Her aunt saw the girl fall and realized that the child would
drown if someone did not rescue her. The aunt knew that there was no
lifeguard present, and that no one else had seen the girl fall, but she
made no effort to rescue the girl although the aunt was a strong
swimmer and could easily have done so with no risk to herself. The
girl drowned.

If the aunt is charged with criminal homicide in the death of the girl,
the court should find her

(A) guilty, because she could have saved the girl without any risk to

herself.

(B) guilty, because she knew that she was the only person present who
was aware of the girl's plight and who was able to rescue her.

(C) guilty, because she was related to the girl.

(D) not guilty, because she had no duty to aid the girl.

After a man raped the defendant in her apartment, he fell asleep. The
defendant tied his hands and feet to the four corners of the bed and
woke him. She said, “Now you are going to be punished for what you
have done. I should kill you, but I won't because I want to make sure
that you 
suffer for the rest of your life.” Using 
the man's own knife, she began to cut and jab him with it, planning to
torture but 
not to kill him. She stabbed and blinded him in both eyes, then cut off
his sex organs. She also severed the tip of his nose and made a series
of cuts across his face and chest.

112. The man died as a result of the injuries inflicted by the defendant. She

was charged with first degree murder in a jurisdiction 
that defines that crime as “the unlawful killing of a human being
committed intentionally, with deliberation and premeditation.” The
court should find the defendant

(A) not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to cause the man's

death.

513

(B) not guilty, because the defendant was acting in self-defense.

(C) guilty, because the man's death resulted from the defendant's

commission of a dangerous felony.

(D) guilty, because the man's death resulted from torture.

113. The defendant noticed a gold-plated pen on her professor's desk and

put it into her pocket. She did so with the intention of returning the pen
in a week or two. The following day, however, the pen was stolen
from the defendant's briefcase. The jurisdiction applies the common
law definitions of larceny and burglary.

If the defendant is charged with larceny as a result of her taking the
gold-plated pen, she should be

(A) acquitted, because theft of the pen from her briefcase was a

superseding cause.

(B) acquitted, because she intended to return the pen in a week or two.

(C) convicted, because the professor was permanently deprived of the

pen.

(D) convicted, because theft of the pen from her briefcase was

foreseeable.

114. Between flights, a woman set her briefcase down beside her seat in the
airport waiting room. The defendant saw this and walked past her in a
casual fashion, picking up the briefcase and walking off with it as he
went by. The woman, believing that he had taken it by mistake, ran to
him and said, “Pardon me, sir. You've taken my bag.” The defendant
drew a realistic-looking toy pistol, pushed her into a seat, and ran
away. The defendant was charged with robbery.

Read the summaries of the decisions in the four cases (A–D) below.
Then decide which is most applicable as a precedent to this case.

(A) The victim was walking on a crowded street with her purse

hanging from a strap over her shoulder when the defendant yanked
the purse with sufficient force to break the strap. The defendant
then ran off with it into the crowd. The defendant's conviction for
robbery was reversed.

(B) The defendant took a package of meat from a showcase in a

supermarket and slipped it under his shirt. He left the store without

514

paying for it. The store cashier ran after him into the parking lot
and stepped in front of him, blocking his path. The defendant took a
straight razor from his pocket and grabbed another customer. He
held the razor to the customer's throat, telling the store cashier to
get out of the way. The cashier stepped aside, and the defendant ran
away, releasing the other customer. The defendant's conviction for
robbery was affirmed.

(C) A schoolteacher took her sixth grade class to visit a display of
medieval torture devices at the museum. She sat in a wooden
torture chair and had herself shackled into it to demonstrate its
operation to her students. The defendant, who worked at the
museum, surreptitiously photographed her with an instant camera.
He then went to the office of the teacher's husband and showed the
husband the photograph of the teacher in the torture chair. The
defendant said that his confederates would torture her unless he
called them on the phone and told them that the husband had given
him $500. The husband gave him the money. The defendant's
conviction for robbery was reversed.

(D) When the victim purchased a ticket at the airport for his flight, he
checked his baggage. Later, the defendant, wearing a mask and
carrying a gun, entered the room where checked baggage was
stored. While forcing the room attendant to lie face down on the
floor, the defendant opened the victim's suitcase and removed
several hundred dollars worth of negotiable securities. The
defendant's conviction for robbery was affirmed.

115. A supermarket cashier borrowed money from the company safe to get

through the weekend, then returned it on Monday morning after she was
paid. One of her coworkers saw her returning the money and
questioned her about it until the cashier admitted what she had done.
The coworker stopped her before she closed the safe and said that
unless the cashier gave him $25 of the store's money, he would tell the
boss. The cashier knew that she could get away with taking $25
because the store records were frequently off by that much and the
boss never worried about it. Thus, she took out $25 from the safe and
gave it to the coworker.

Of which one of the following crimes is the coworker most likely to
be guilty as a result of his conduct on Monday morning?

515

(A) Robbery, because he obtained money from the cashier by threat and

intimidation.

(B) Larceny, because he obtained money by inciting and encouraging

the cashier to steal $25 from the safe.

(C) Embezzlement, because he obtained his employer's money by

violating his duty to report the cashier's conduct.

(D) Fraud, because he obtained money by withholding information that

he had a duty to disclose.

116. A statute provides as follows: “Any person who knowingly sells an
intoxicating substance to a person under the age of 21 years shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.” The owner of a cocktail lounge hired a new
bartender. Before the bartender began working, the owner read him the
above statute and explained the need for him to check the identification
of all persons who appeared to be under the age of 21 years. She also
told him that if she ever heard of his violating the statute, she would
fire him immediately. Later that night, a 17-year-old teenager who
looked like he was 25 ordered a glass of wine. The teenager showed
the bartender an altered driver's license that falsely stated his age to be
22. The bartender was not sure whether the phrase intoxicating
substance in the statute included wine, and he served it to the teenager.
An undercover police officer who was at the bar observed the
transaction. He then showed his badge, demanding to see the teenager's
identification. Recognizing the driver's license as a forgery, he
arrested the bartender.

The owner is charged with violating the statute, and the prosecutor
asserts that she should be held vicariously liable for the bartender's
act. Which of the following would be the owner's most effective
argument in defense?

(A) The owner did not have personal knowledge of the sale to the

teenager.

(B) The owner cautioned the bartender against violation of the statute.

(C) The bartender is not guilty of violating the statute.

(D) The bartender was not acting within the scope of his employment

when he sold wine to a minor in violation of the statute.

117. The defendant was an avid deer hunter. His favorite place to hunt was

516

a small cemetery in the middle of a densely populated suburban
neighborhood. Because the neighborhood had grown so quickly within
the past decade, deer were forced to congregate in a few wooded
patches in the cemetery, making the likelihood of seeing a deer
extremely high. One morning when the defendant was in the cemetery,
he saw a deer standing near the cemetery gates about 80 yards away.
The defendant shot at the deer. The bullet missed and went through the
front window of a nearby house, killing the victim. What is the most
serious crime for which the defendant can be convicted?

(A) Battery.

(B) Involuntary manslaughter.

(C) Voluntary manslaughter.

(D) Murder.

118. In the course of robbing a bank, the defendant pointed a gun at three
bank tellers and the bank manager and ordered them to go from the
bank lobby to the back room while his confederate attempted to open
the safe.

If the defendant is charged with kidnapping the bank manager, his most
effective argument in defense would be that

(A) he did not demand a ransom.

(B) he released the bank manager as soon as the robbery was

completed.

(C) ordering the bank manager to go from the bank lobby to the back
room was incidental and necessary to the commission of the
robbery.

(D) the bank manager was an adult.

119. The police believed the defendant was engaged in drug dealing, so

they obtained a warrant to search her home. When they arrived, a man
was working in the front yard. He told the officers that he was the
defendant's ex-husband and that she had moved out. He led the officers
inside and took them to a back bedroom where he said the defendant
had “left some of her stuff.” The officers searched the back bedroom
and found several shoeboxes of marijuana. The man then told the
officers the defendant had moved to another house down the street. He
said the defendant was still at work, but would be home soon, so they

517

should hurry and search the house before the defendant destroyed the
evidence. The officers went down the street and found the front door
unlocked. They then searched the house, and discovered a large
marijuana grow operation.

At trial, the defendant argued that the search that uncovered the
marijuana grow operation was unlawful. How should the court rule?

(A) The search was lawful based on exigent circumstances.

(B) The search was lawful based on consent.

(C) The search was unlawful because the officers did not have a

warrant.

(D) The search was unlawful based on the fruit of the poisonous tree.

120. Because they were bigots, two men were angry when a Chinese family
moved into a house on their street. Deciding to drive them away and to
set an example that would discourage other Chinese people from
moving into the neighborhood, they agreed to set fire to the family's
home. They went to the house, and one of the men started pouring
gasoline around it. A crowd of onlookers began to gather. The
defendant, one of the onlookers, hoped that the men would burn down
the house but said nothing. After the first man finished pouring the
gasoline, the second man lit a match and set it afire, burning the house
to the ground.

On a charge of arson, the defendant is

(A) guilty, because she made no attempt to stop the crime from being

committed.

(B) guilty, because her hope that the men would burn the house down

amounted to criminal intent.

(C) not guilty, because mere presence coupled with silent approval is

not sufficient to result in liability as an accessory.

(D) not guilty, because she was, at most, an accessory after the fact.

121. A landlord was the owner of a three-unit residential building. She

lived in an apartment on the third floor; her son, the defendant, lived
with his wife in an apartment on the second floor; and the ground floor
apartment was rented to a police officer and his family. One day, while
the defendant and his wife were out of town, the landlord and the

518

officer were having coffee together in the landlord's apartment. During
the course of their conversation, the landlord said that she was
worried about the defendant because once, while visiting him, she saw
a substance in his apartment that she believed to be cocaine. Since she
really did not know what cocaine looked like, however, she was not
sure. The officer said, “If you'd like, I'll have a look and let you know
whether or not there is anything for you to worry about.”

Using her key to open the door to the defendant's apartment, the
landlord brought the officer inside. Lying on a table in the entrance
hall inside the apartment was a plastic pouch containing white
powder. The officer sniffed it and said, “That's coke, all right,” putting
it in his pocket. Then he noticed a television in the living room that
looked like one stolen from an appliance store in the neighborhood.
Without saying anything about the television to the landlord, the officer
obtained a search warrant by submitting an affidavit indicating that he
had seen certain items in the defendant's apartment that he had
probable cause to believe were stolen. Later, he returned, entered, and
thoroughly searched the apartment pursuant to the warrant. The
television that he had seen on his first visit was not stolen, but during
the course of his search, he found several items that were stolen.
Eventually, the defendant was charged with burglary.

On the charge of burglary, if the defendant makes an appropriate
motion to suppress the use of stolen items found in his apartment, his
motion should be

(A) denied, since the stolen items were obtained as the result of a

lawful search.

(B) denied, since it would not serve the interests of justice to require a
police officer to ignore a discovery that he or she has probable
cause to believe is contraband.

(C) granted, because the search warrant was issued as the result of

information obtained in an unlawful search.

(D) granted, since his possession of stolen items is not necessarily

proof that he stole those items.

122. A woman was a collector of antique automobiles. One day, she took
her infant daughter for a ride in one of the most valuable cars in her
collection. On her way, she stopped to buy a newspaper. Because her

519

daughter had fallen asleep in the backseat, the collector left her in the
car when she got out. The defendant, a professional car thief who
happened to be at the newspaper stand, jumped into the collector's car
and drove it away without noticing the daughter in the backseat.

The defendant realized that he would not be able to sell a stolen car as
unusual as this one, so he parked it in a friend's garage, still unaware
of the presence of the sleeping child. Getting the collector's name and
phone number from some papers in the glove compartment of the car,
the defendant phoned her and left a message on her telephone
answering machine, telling her that if she did not immediately bring
$1,000 in cash to a certain location, he would set the car on fire.

When the collector realized that her car, with her daughter in the
backseat, was gone, she became frantic and rushed home. When she
picked up her phone to call the police, her answering machine played
the defendant's message. Upon hearing it, the collector brought $1,000
to the location specified. The defendant, who was waiting for her, took
the money and returned the car. The daughter was still sleeping quietly
in the backseat.

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it were the
only one true, would be most likely to lead to a conviction of the
defendant on a charge of robbery of $1,000 from the collector?

(A) The car was in the collector's possession when the defendant took

it.

(B) The collector paid the money to prevent injury to her daughter.

(C) The collector paid the money to prevent damage to her automobile.

(D) By the time the collector showed up with the money, the defendant

had discovered the daughter sleeping in the backseat.

123. A state police officer was investigating a series of car thefts. A federal
officer was assigned to assist under a federal statute that permits the
United States Department of Justice to aid local police departments in
investigating certain crimes. Because of a man's criminal record, the
state officer went to the man's home and questioned him regarding the
recent thefts. She did not inform the federal officer that she was going
to do so. During the course of the questioning, the state officer drew
her gun and threatened to shoot the man if the man did not immediately

520

admit his guilt. The man confessed to the thefts and identified the
defendant as his partner. The state officer left the man, saying, “I'll be
back for you later.” Then, after obtaining the necessary warrant, the
state officer arrested the defendant.

Unaware of the state officer's activity, the federal officer examined a
stolen vehicle that had been recovered by the state police. The federal
officer found fingerprints in locations that indicated that they were
made by a person breaking into and starting the car. Using a U.S.
Department of Justice computer, the federal officer identified the
fingerprints as the man's. The federal officer obtained the necessary
warrant and arrested the man. The man and the defendant were
charged in a state court with car theft.

The defendant moved to dismiss the prosecution against him on the
ground that his identification was obtained during the course of an
unlawful interrogation of the man. Which of the following would be
the prosecution's most effective argument in opposition to the
defendant's motion?

(A) The discovery of the defendant's identity was inevitable.

(B) The discovery of the defendant's identity was the result of an

independent investigation that purged any taint resulting from the
illegality of the interrogation of the man.

(C) The interrogation of the man did not violate the defendant's

constitutional rights.

(D) The defendant was not in custody at the time of the man's

interrogation.

124. The defendant placed a large wager on a football game that he had to

win or he was going to have his home foreclosed on. He decided to
watch it at a local bar. During the very close game, the defendant was
so nervous that he drank several beers and became drunk. At the last
minute, the team he bet on scored a touchdown and won the game. The
defendant cheered. He then noticed two big men sitting at the other end
of the bar who worked for the bookie he had placed the bet with.
Fearing the men were going to hurt him because of his win, the
defendant got in his car and drove home. A police officer saw him
driving erratically and tried to pull him over. A reasonable sober
driver would have recognized the car as a police car, but the defendant

521

thought it was the bookie's employees coming to kill him. The
defendant made a quick turn onto a busy side street. A pedestrian was
crossing the street with his headphones on and without looking. The
defendant hit him with the car, and the pedestrian died immediately.
The defendant was charged with involuntary manslaughter. The
defendant should be found

(A) not guilty, because the pedestrian was contributorily negligent in
crossing the busy street without looking and with his headphones
on.

(B) not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to cause the

pedestrian's death.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant genuinely believed he was fleeing

for his life.

(D) guilty.

125. The defendant and his friend decided to rob a woman at an ATM.

When the woman withdrew her money, the defendant hit her with a
brick and his friend grabbed her purse. As the two men were fleeing
the scene, a police officer yelled for them to stop. When they did not
do so, he shot them both. The defendant's friend later died from his
injuries.

If the defendant is put on trial for felony murder, how should the court
rule?

(A) Guilty, because his friend died during the commission of a felony.

(B) Guilty, because his friend died during the commission of a

dangerous felony.

(C) Not guilty, because his friend was killed by a police officer.

(D) Not guilty, because the felony was completed when his friend was

shot.

126. The defendant, who was a law student, was attempting to study for her
final examinations. She was having difficulty concentrating because the
people in the apartment above hers were having a loud party, and the
defendant found the noise distracting. She telephoned, asking her
neighbors to stop making so much noise, but they refused to do so.
Finally, the defendant fired a pistol through the ceiling of her
apartment. She did not intend to hit anyone with the bullet but hoped

522

that the shot would frighten her neighbors and chill the atmosphere.
After passing through the floor of the apartment above the defendant's,
the bullet struck a piece of furniture and ricocheted. It struck the
victim, lodging in his shoulder and injuring him.

Which of the following is the most serious crime of which the
defendant may be properly convicted?

(A) Battery.

(B) Attempted involuntary manslaughter.

(C) Attempted voluntary manslaughter.

(D) Attempted murder.

127. The defendant and her friend were roommates until they began arguing

bitterly. During one argument, the defendant moved out of the
apartment that they shared. As she left, she said, “I'm going to get even
with you for all the grief you've caused me.” The following day, a
neighbor told the friend that the defendant had purchased a gun. The
neighbor also said that the defendant told her that she was going to
shoot the friend the next time she saw her. As a result, the friend began
carrying a loaded pistol. Several days later, realizing that she still had
the key to the apartment, the defendant went back to return it. The
friend was leaving the apartment when she saw the defendant walking
toward her. As the defendant reached into her pocket for the apartment
key, the friend drew her pistol and shot the defendant, aiming to hit her
in the chest. The bullet grazed the defendant's shoulder, inflicting a
minor injury. The defendant immediately drew her own pistol and shot
the friend with it, striking her in the thigh and inflicting a serious
injury.

The defendant is charged with attempted murder. If the defendant
asserts the privilege of self-defense, she will most probably be found

(A) guilty, because it was reasonable for the friend to believe that the

defendant was reaching into her pocket for a gun.

(B) guilty, because the defendant's injury was not serious enough to

result in death.

(C) guilty, because the fact that the defendant was carrying a pistol is

evidence of premeditation.

523

(D) not guilty.

128. Two men were members of a militant political group. As a protest

against the use of harmful agricultural chemicals, they planned to burn
down a factory that produced such chemicals. A few days later, they
set off a bomb that burned the factory to the ground.

The jurisdiction has a statute that extends the common law definition
of arson to buildings other than dwellings. Of which of the following
crimes may the men be properly convicted?

(A) Arson only.

(B) Conspiracy only.

(C) Arson or conspiracy, but not both.

(D) Both arson and conspiracy.

129. The defendant's toolbox was stolen out of the back of his pickup truck.
The next day, the defendant saw the victim walking down the street
carrying what the defendant believed was his stolen toolbox. The
defendant jumped out of his truck and grabbed the toolbox from the
victim, yelling “If you don't give the toolbox to me, I'm going to shoot
you dead!” The victim gave the defendant the toolbox and the
defendant drove away. At the next stop sign a block away, the
defendant opened the toolbox and realized that the toolbox wasn't in
fact his missing toolbox. A police officer who saw the defendant grab
the victim's toolbox pulled up in his police car and immediately
arrested the defendant.

The defendant is charged with robbery. At trial, the prosecution shows
that because the victim's toolbox was much larger than the defendant's,
the defendant was unreasonable in the belief that the toolbox was his
stolen toolbox. However, the defendant shows that he honestly
believed the toolbox was his. The court should find the defendant

(A) guilty, because the defendant's belief that the toolbox was his

missing toolbox was unreasonable.

(B) guilty, because the defendant threatened to shoot the victim if he

didn't give him the toolbox.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant honestly believed the toolbox was

his missing toolbox.

524

(D) not guilty, because there was no indication that the defendant could

carry out on his threat.

130. Four weeks after breaking her engagement with her boyfriend, the
defendant was angry because her boyfriend still had not returned a
stereo that he had borrowed from her. She went to his house one night
to demand its immediate return. When she got there, the boyfriend was
not at home and his door was unlocked. The defendant entered to look
for her stereo but could not find it. While searching, she noticed that
the boyfriend had a new couch. Thinking that the couch was worth as
much as her stereo, she tore open one of its cushions and set it on fire
before leaving. The fire destroyed the couch completely and charred
the walls and ceiling of the room, although the house itself was not
seriously damaged. The defendant was subsequently prosecuted.
Statutes in the jurisdiction adopt the common law definitions of
burglary, larceny, and arson.

If the defendant is charged with larceny as a result of the destruction of
the couch, which of the following would be her most effective defense
against that charge?

(A) The boyfriend's door was unlocked when she entered.

(B) She believed the couch to be equal in value to her stereo.

(C) She did not physically move the couch.

(D) She did not intend to benefit from the destruction of the couch.

131. One day, the owner of a department store asked an employee in the
store's shoe department to temporarily replace a sporting goods
salesman who did not show up for work. A teenager, who was 15
years of age, subsequently entered the sporting goods department and
asked the employee to sell her ammunition for a pistol. The employee
placed a box of ammunition on the counter and said, “That'll be $9,
please.” Realizing that she did not have any money with her, the
teenager left the store without the ammunition, saying that she would
return for it later. A few hours later, while the owner was helping the
employee stock handguns, the teenager returned and bought the
ammunition.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows: “Any person who
sells ammunition for a firearm to a person below the age of 16 years
shall be guilty of a felony. The employer of any person who violates

525

this section during the course of such employment shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $250. It shall not be a
defense to a violation of this section that the defendant had no
knowledge of the age of the person to whom the sale was made.”

If the owner is prosecuted under the statute, the owner should be found

(A) guilty, because her employee sold ammunition to a person under the

age of 16 years.

(B) guilty, because it was unreasonable for the owner to assign the

employee to the sporting goods department without properly
instructing him regarding the statute.

(C) guilty, because the owner was present when the employee made the

sale to the teenager.

(D) not guilty, because holding one person vicariously liable for the

crime of another violates the constitutional right to due process of
law.

132. A man was scared of heights. To cure him, his friend, a psychiatrist

and experienced mountain climber, convinced him to go mountain
climbing with her on Mount Smoke, the highest peak in the state. The
mountain was known as a tough and dangerous climb. It was also
known for the large amount of poisonous volcanic gases that escaped
from vents at the top. These gases were known to cause problems with
people's nervous systems. At the top of the mountain, the man and the
woman stood on the edge of a cliff to take a selfie. As they were about
to take the picture, a freak gust of wind blew a cloud of volcanic gas
over them. The toxins in the gas caused both the man and the woman to
lose voluntary control of their arms and legs. The woman punched the
man, knocking him off the cliff to his death.

Is the woman criminally liable for the man's death?

(A) Yes, because her punch was the proximate cause of his death.

(B) Yes, because she voluntarily put herself in contact with a gas

known to cause nerve problems.

(C) No, because the wind gust was a freak occurrence and

unforeseeable.

(D) No, because the gas made the woman lose control of her arms and

526

legs.

133. The defendant and a bank robber had been in the same cell together

while serving time in prison. Soon after their release, the bank robber
asked the defendant to join him in robbing a bank. The defendant
refused, stating that he did not want to go back to prison. The bank
robber then said that he would rob the bank himself if the defendant
would provide him with a place to hide afterwards. The defendant
agreed that the bank robber could hide in the defendant's apartment
following the robbery in return for one-fourth of the proceeds of the
robbery. The following day, the bank robber robbed the bank. One
week later, the bank robber was arrested at the defendant's apartment.

The defendant was charged with conspiracy to commit robbery. The
court should find the defendant

(A) not guilty, because he did not agree to participate in the actual

perpetration of the robbery.

(B) not guilty, because the defendant's agreement to permit the bank

robber to stay at his apartment following the robbery was not per
se unlawful.

(C) guilty, because he was an accessory to the robbery.

(D) guilty, because he agreed to furnish the bank robber with a place to

hide in return for a portion of the proceeds of the robbery.

134. After his arrest for drug possession, the defendant asked to have his
attorney present and telephoned her office, leaving a message that he
had been arrested. When the attorney received the message, she
telephoned the county sheriff, asking where the defendant was being
held. The sheriff said that he did not know. However, this was a lie.
As a result of the lie, it took the attorney several hours to find the
defendant. While waiting for the attorney, one of the officers said to the
defendant, “Why don't you tell us about it?” whereupon the defendant
admitted growing marijuana. The defendant was subsequently charged
with violating a state law that prohibits growing marijuana.

The defendant's attorney made an appropriate motion to prevent the
use of the defendant's statement as evidence against him. The motion
should be

(A) granted, because the defendant asserted his right to have an attorney

527

present.

(B) granted, because the sheriff actually knew the defendant's

whereabouts when he said that he did not.

(C) granted, because the sheriff lied to the attorney.

(D) denied, because the defendant waived his right to remain silent

when he admitted growing the marijuana.

135. A man asked his friend, a doctor, for help killing his wife. The doctor
gave his friend a bottle of “deadly poison pills,” and told his friend to
give his wife two of them for “certain death.” The pills were actually
common muscle relaxants, and were widely available with a
prescription. The doctor did not think the pills could kill anyone,
although it would probably make his friend's wife go to sleep for a
little while. He thought that if his friend gave the pills to his wife and
believed he had killed her, he would regret his actions and change his
mind. That night, the man slipped the pills into his wife's wine glass.
His wife had a severe allergic reaction and almost died.

The man was prosecuted for conspiracy to murder his wife. How
should the court rule?

(A) Guilty, because he believed the pills were deadly poison.

(B) Guilty, because his wife almost died.

(C) Not guilty, because his wife did not die.

(D) Not guilty, because the doctor did not think the wife would die.

136. After a fight at a bar, police officers arrested one of the women

involved and drove her to the station. On the way, the police officers
advised the woman that she had the right to remain silent, that anything
she said might be used against her, that she was entitled to have an
attorney present during questioning, and that if she could not afford an
attorney, one would be furnished without cost. The woman said she
didn't want to answer any questions without her attorney present. The
officers allowed the woman to contact her attorney, who stated he
would get to the station when he could.

Several hours passed. The officers went to breakfast at a diner. At the
diner, the owner told them the diner had recently been robbed by a
woman. He described the woman and said one of his employees had

528

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

seen her later at a bar. The owner's description matched the woman the
officers had just arrested. When the officers returned, they gave the
woman breakfast they had brought from the diner and asked her if she
knew anything about the diner being robbed. The woman immediately
admitted robbing the diner.

At trial, the woman moved to exclude her confession. How should the
court rule?

(A) The confession should be excluded, because the woman said she

wouldn't talk without her attorney present.

(B) The confession should be excluded, because the officers did not tell

the woman they suspected her of robbing the diner before
questioning her.

(C) The confession should be admitted, because the woman received

Miranda warnings before admitting to the robbery.

(D) The confession should be admitted, because the woman waived her

Miranda rights by answering the officers' questions.

137. While playing baseball, the defendant and the victim got into an

argument when the victim, an umpire, called a strike on the defendant.
Enraged at what he perceived as unfair treatment, the defendant swung
as hard as he could and hit the victim in the head with the metal bat he
was using. The victim died instantly. The defendant then yelled,
“Geesh, I didn't mean to kill him!”

If the defendant is prosecuted for criminal homicide, the most serious
crime the defendant can be found guilty of is

(A) murder.

(B) voluntary manslaughter.

(C) involuntary manslaughter.

(D) battery.

138. A man was first in line for a new edition of an extremely popular
cellphone. Just as the doors to the store were opening, the victim
stepped in front of the man and said, “Too bad — I'm too important to
wait.” The defendant, who was standing in line behind the man, yelled,
“Hey, don't let him do that to you! Kill that jerk!” The man took a knife
from his pocket and stabbed the victim to death.

529

The defendant is charged with murder. He should be found

(A) guilty, because he yelled “Kill that jerk!”

(B) not guilty, because the defendant did not physically help the man in

any way.

(C) not guilty, because words alone are not enough for criminal

liability.

(D) not guilty, because there was no indication the defendant actually

intended the man to kill the victim.

139. Two undercover police officers received an anonymous tip that the

defendant was engaged in buying and selling stolen cars. The two
officers got a car from the police impound lot and then met with the
defendant. After the officers told the defendant that the car was stolen,
the defendant offered to buy it. When the defendant handed the officers
the money, they placed him under arrest.

The defendant is charged with conspiracy to receive stolen property.
The jurisdiction follows the common law view. The court should find
him

(A) guilty, because he believed the car was stolen.

(B) guilty, because the officers told him the car was stolen.

(C) not guilty, because neither officer intended to participate in the

purchase or sale of a stolen vehicle.

(D) not guilty, because the car that he agreed to purchase from the

officers was not actually stolen.

140. The defendant hired a hitman to kill a business rival. When the

defendant was out of town, the hitman went to the business rival's
home. The hitman looked through the window and saw the business
rival sleeping in a chair. The hitman fired five shots into the business
rival's chest and ran away. Unbeknownst to the hitman, the business
rival had died of a heart attack five minutes earlier. The shots would
have been fatal if the business rival was still alive. Two minutes after
fleeing the scene, the hitman checked his cellphone and found an
earlier message from the defendant stating that he was thinking of
calling off the hitman's contract. The defendant is arrested and charged
with attempted murder. The defendant should be found

530

(A) guilty, because the defendant hired the hitman to kill the business

rival.

(B) not guilty, because the defendant was out of town.

(C) not guilty, because the defendant attempted to withdraw from the

conspiracy.

(D) not guilty, because it was factually impossible to murder the

business rival.

531

ANSWERS
____________________
CRIMINAL LAW

532

ANSWERS TO 
CRIMINAL LAW QUESTIONS

1. D An officer executing a warrant for the search of premises is limited to a
search of the place described in the warrant. A misidentification will
invalidate the search unless the officer could not mistake the place to
be  searched.  The  officer  executing  the  warrant  could  not  have  been
certain  whether  it  was  for  a  tavern  known  as  the  Second  Bedroom
located on Main Street or for premises known as the Second Bedroom
located at 481 Chambers Street (but which contained a furniture store
rather  than  a  tavern).  It  may  therefore  be  successfully  argued  that  the
warrant  did  not  properly  identify  the  defendant's  premises,  and  the
search was invalid. While it is not certain that a court would come to
this  conclusion,  D  is  the  only  argument  listed  that  could  possibly
support the motion to suppress.

A  is  incorrect  because  an  affidavit  submitted  to  establish  probable
cause  may  be  based  entirely  on  hearsay.  If  it  establishes  the
credibility  of  the  informant  and  the  reliability  of  his  or  her
information, it may serve as the basis for the warrant, even though it
does  not  name  the  informant.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  affidavit
indicated that the informant had given information in the past that had
always  proved  to  be  accurate  (thus  establishing  his  credibility)  and
that  he  had  observed  the  activities  himself  (thus  establishing  the
reliability  of  his  information).  Even  without  establishing  credibility
and  reliability,  an  affidavit  that  fails  to  identify  the  informant  could
support the issuance of a warrant if the information that it contains is
corroborated by other independent evidence. C is incorrect, however,
because if credibility and reliability are established, corroboration is
unnecessary.

2. D A police officer who has probable cause to believe that the defendant
is  in  the  process  of  committing  a  crime  may  arrest  the  defendant
without a warrant. Upon making a lawful arrest, the police officer may
search  the  defendant's  person  and  packages  within  the  defendant's
control to prevent the loss of evidence and to protect the officer.

Some courts have held that one who ships baggage on an airline has
no reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to the contents of
the baggage; other courts hold that sniffing of baggage by a dog does
not  violate  the  reasonable  expectation  of  privacy  because  it  is

533

nonintrusive. Either way, most agree that such an inspection is not an
unreasonable search. A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because
if  probable  cause  existed,  the  arrest  was  lawful  even  without  a
warrant. Since the dog sniffed the baggage after the plane had landed,
and  since  it  was  sniffing  for  marijuana  rather  than  weapons,  C  is  a
non sequitur and therefore is incorrect.

3.  B  Under  the  common  law,  rape  is  forced  sexual  intercourse  with  a
female,  who  is  not  the  spouse  of  the  defendant,  without  her  consent.
Modern statutes have expanded this definition to include male victims,
spouses, and other acts not amounting to sexual intercourse. Rape is a
“general intent” crime, which means that a conviction may be had even
though the defendant did not intend to engage in intercourse without the
female's consent if he acted recklessly or was criminally negligent in
determining  whether  or  not  she  consented.  It  is  necessary,  however,
that the defendant intend to engage in intercourse. If the defendant did
not intend to have intercourse, he cannot be convicted.

A  is  incorrect  because  it  may  have  been  reckless  or  criminally
negligent for the defendant to believe that the victim consented. Since
the  victim  initially  attempted  to  resist  the  defendant's  advances,  it
may  be  found  that  the  intercourse  was  without  her  consent  even
though  she  was  so  drunk  that  she  was  unaware  that  it  took  place  or
unaware of the defendant's identity. C and D are therefore incorrect.
C  is  also  incorrect  since  most  courts  agree  that  sexual  intercourse
with  a  woman  who  lacks  the  capacity  to  consent  because  she  is
unconscious or intoxicated is done without her consent and therefore
is rape. In addition, D is incorrect because a rape takes place when
penetration  occurs  without  consent  and  is  not  undone  if  the  victim
subsequently consents.

4.  B  Although  a  warrantless  search  is  usually  invalid,  it  may  be  valid  if
consented to by one with authority to consent. Since a guest in a hotel
is entitled to exclusive possession of the room that he or she occupies,
the hotel keeper does not have the power to consent to the search of a
guest's room, even if the guest is overdue in his or her payments. The
motion in B would probably be granted for this reason.

On the other hand, the owner of an automobile does have the power
to  consent  to  a  search  of  it,  so  the  motion  in  A  would  fail.  After  a
defendant's automobile has been impounded by the police, they have
the  right  to  search  it  for  the  purpose  of  making  an  inventory  of  its

534

contents. Although the reason for the inventory search is to protect the
police  against  possible  subsequent  claims  that  contents  of  the
impounded vehicle were taken or converted while the vehicle was in
police  custody,  evidence  that  is  incidentally  discovered  during  the
course  of  such  a  search  is  admissible  against  the  defendant.  The
motion in C would therefore fail. In D, the search did not take place
until  the  defendant  was  placed  under  arrest.  A  search  of  the
defendant's person conducted incidentally to a lawful arrest is not a
violation  of  his  Fourth  Amendment  right  to  be  secure  against
unreasonable search and seizure, so the motion in D would fail.

5. D Larceny is defined as a trespassory taking and carrying off of personal
property known to be another's with the intent to permanently deprive
the owner thereof. A taking is trespassory if it violates the rights of the
owner.  Since  the  coat  was  the  friend's  and  since  the  friend  told  the
defendant  to  take  it,  the  taking  did  not  violate  the  friend's  rights  and
was therefore not trespassory. A and C are therefore incorrect.

A criminal conspiracy is committed when two or more persons with
the  specific  intent  to  commit  a  crime  agree  to  commit  that  crime.
Since  the  friend  knew  that  the  coat  was  his,  he  did  not  have  the
specific  intent  to  commit  a  crime  when  he  agreed  to  help  the
defendant take it. B and C are therefore incorrect.

6. A A killing is intentional if the defendant desired or knew to a substantial
degree of certainty that it would result from his or her act. A killing is
deliberate and premeditated if the defendant was capable of reflecting
upon  it  with  a  cool  mind  and  did  in  fact  do  so.  Since  the  defendant
hoped for (i.e., desired) the victim's death, the killing was intentional.
Since he reflected on it in advance with a cool mind, it was deliberate
and premeditated.

Since first degree murder is the most serious crime listed, B, C, and
D  are  incorrect.  Voluntary  manslaughter  is  an  intentional  killing
resulting  from  extreme  emotional  disturbance  or  in  the  mistaken
belief  that  it  is  justified.  C  is  also  incorrect  because  there  is  no
indication that the defendant was emotionally disturbed or mistakenly
believed  that  his  act  was  justified.  Involuntary  manslaughter  is  an
unintended  killing  that  results  from  criminal  negligence.  D  is
incorrect because the defendant intended the death of the victim.

7. A Larceny is defined as a trespassory taking and carrying off of personal

535

the  defendant  acquired  possession  without 

property known to be another's with the intent to permanently deprive
the owner thereof. A trespassory taking is an acquisition of possession
contrary  to  the  rights  of  the  owner  and  without  the  owner's  consent.
the  victim's
Since 
permission,  he  committed  a  trespassory  taking.  A  carrying  off  occurs
when  the  defendant  moves  the  property,  even  slightly,  with  the
intention of exercising dominion over it. Since the defendant moved the
watch from the table to his pocket with the intention of keeping it, he
carried it off. Since he knew that the watch belonged to the victim and
intended to keep it for himself, he had knowledge that the property was
another's  and  intended  to  deprive  the  owner  of  it.  He  therefore
committed a larceny, making A correct.

A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to  bring  about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  comes
substantially  close  to  bringing  it  about.  Although  the  defendant  is
probably guilty of attempted larceny, B is incorrect because larceny
is  a  more  serious  crime.  Embezzlement  is  defined  as  a  criminal
conversion  of  personal  property  by  one  in  lawful  custody  of  that
property. Employees who steal property from their employers while
in custody of it because of the employment relationship may be guilty
of embezzlement. C is incorrect, however, because the defendant did
not come into possession of the watch as a result of his employment
relationship with the victim. D is incorrect because the defendant is
guilty of larceny for the reasons stated above.

8.  C  At  common  law,  rape  can  be  committed  by  using  intoxicants  to
overcome  the  victim's  resistance.  Under  the  given  statute,  however,
third degree rape is committed only when a person over the age of 17
has sexual intercourse with a person under the age of 16. Since the girl
was only 15, she cannot be guilty of committing it.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  statute
specifically provides that the crime can be committed by a female.

9. A The clerk is obviously guilty of bribery in the second degree because
she offered to alter the official records for $500. She cannot be guilty
of  conspiracy,  however,  because  of  Wharton's  Rule,  which  provides
that there can be no conspiracy unless the agreement involves at least
one  person  who  is  not  essential  to  the  commission  of  the  crime  to
which the conspirators agreed. The Wharton Rule applies to the crimes
of  bigamy,  incest,  gambling,  bribery,  adultery,  and  dueling.  Since  the

536

crime of bribery could not have been committed by either the clerk or
the store owner acting alone, neither can be found guilty of conspiring
with the other to commit it.

B,  C,  and  D  are  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  additionally  incorrect
because conspiracy is a separate crime that does not merge with the
crime that the conspirators agreed to commit.

10. C A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to bring about a result that is criminally prohibited, he or she comes
substantially  close  to  bringing  about  that  result.  Since  under  the
applicable  statute,  burning  down  one's  own  house  is  not  arson,  the
result that the defendant specifically intended to bring about was not
criminally  prohibited  by  the  arson  statute.  For  this  reason,  the
defendant  could  not  be  guilty  of  attempted  arson.  C  is  therefore
correct.

Even though it was factually impossible for a defendant to commit a
particular crime, he or she may be convicted of attempt if the crime
would  have  been  committed  had  the  facts  been  as  the  defendant
thought  them  to  be.  For  example,  if  the  defendant  burned  her  own
house  believing  it  to  be  the  dwelling  of  another,  she  could  be
convicted of attempted arson. Thus, A is an accurate statement of the
law. A is incorrect, however, because the defendant did not make a
mistake of fact (i.e., she knew that the dwelling was her own). Since
guilt for attempt requires the specific intent to accomplish a purpose
that is criminally prohibited, a person cannot be guilty if what he or
she  intended  to  accomplish  was  not  criminally  prohibited.  This  is
true  even  if  he  or  she  believes  that  it  is  criminally  prohibited,  no
matter how that mistaken belief was formed. B is therefore incorrect.
D  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  while  a  defendant  cannot  be
convicted of both a substantive crime and an attempt to commit that
substantive crime, he or she can be convicted of the attempt instead of
the  substantive  crime,  and  second,  the  defendant  is  charged  with
attempted arson, not attempted insurance fraud.

11.  A  Murder  is  the  unjustified  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  includes  the  intent  to  cause  great
bodily  harm  to  a  human  being.  A  defendant  “intends”  a  particular
consequence if he or she desires or knows to a substantial degree of
certainty that it will occur. Since the defendant desired and/or knew
that exposure to the gas was likely to result in great bodily harm to the

537

coworker, she intended to cause great bodily harm to a human being.
Since the friend died, the defendant may be found guilty of his murder.
A is therefore correct.

B is incorrect because engaging in an inherently dangerous activity is
not  equivalent  to  malice  aforethought.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
defendant's  intent  to  cause  great  bodily  harm  to  any  human  being  is
sufficient  to  make  her  guilty  of  murder  in  causing  the  death  of  the
friend. Although the intent to kill is a form of malice aforethought, D
is  incorrect  because  the  intent  to  cause  great  bodily  harm  is  also  a
form of malice aforethought.

12. B A person is guilty of a criminal intent when, with the specific intent to
bring  about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  comes
substantially  close  to  achieving  that  result.  Thus,  all  attempts  are
“specific  intent”  crimes.  This  means  that,  although  murder  may  be
committed without the intent to kill, attempted murder may not. If the
defendant  believed  that  the  victim  was  already  dead,  he  could  not
have  intended  to  kill  him  and  so  could  not  be  guilty  of  attempted
murder.

is 

incorrect  because 

A defendant with the specific intent to commit a particular crime may
be  guilty  of  attempting  it  even  though  accomplishing  the  intended
result  was  factually  impossible.  A 
the
defendant's  intent  to  kill  the  victim  could  make  him  guilty  of
attempted  murder  even  though  the  fact  that  the  victim  was  already
dead  made  murder  factually  impossible.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
defendant's belief that the gun was loaded could establish that he had
the specific intent to kill the victim, even though the fact that the gun
was unloaded made it factually impossible for him to accomplish the
result that he intended. D is incorrect because the defendant's belief
that the substance was a poison could help establish that he had the
specific  intent  to  kill  the  victim,  even  though  the  fact  that  the
substance was harmless made it impossible for him to accomplish the
intended result.

13. A Because of the possibility that manipulation of the circumstances of a
lineup  will  result  in  a  likelihood  of  inaccurate  identification,  the
United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  after  the  filing  of  formal
charges  against  him  or  her,  a  prisoner  is  entitled  to  the  presence  of
counsel at a lineup.

538

Since  all  prisoners  are  expected  to  obey  the  commands  of  their
jailers,  no  prisoner  is  required  to  resist  violations  of  his  or  her
constitutional  rights  by  those  in  apparent  legal  authority.  B  is
incorrect because it suggests that failure to resist results in waiver. C
is  incorrect  because  requirements  as  to  lineup  procedures  are  more
flexible  than  those  listed.  It  has  even  been  held  that  a  one-person
“show-up”  may  be  valid  if  it  is  conducted  properly.  The  taint  of  an
improper  lineup  procedure  may  be  purged  by  evidence  that  the  in-
court identification was arrived at by means distinguishable from the
lineup.  D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  victim's  courtroom
identification of the defendant was nothing more than a repetition of
the lineup identification.

14.  D  Even  in  the  absence  of  probable  cause  to  believe  that  health  and
safety violations exist in a particular building, a warrant to search it
for such violations may be issued upon probable cause to believe that
such violations exist in buildings in the neighborhood.

B  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  is  incorrect  because  such  a  scheme
justifies  the  issuance  of  warrants  like  those  issued  here,  rather  than
invalidating  it.  Although  the  courts  have  considerable  leeway  in
issuing  warrants  for  health  and  safety  inspections,  C  is  incorrect
because warrants are required by the Fourth Amendment to the United
States Constitution.

15. D  The  crime  of  receiving  stolen  property  consists  of  acquiring  stolen
property  with  the  knowledge  that  it  was  stolen  and  the  intent  to
permanently  deprive  the  owner  thereof.  Since  the  defendant  did  not
know that the television was stolen when he acquired possession of
it,  he  cannot  be  guilty  of  receiving  stolen  property.  A  and  C  are
therefore incorrect.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

The crime of larceny consists of the trespassory taking and carrying
off  of  personal  property  known  to  be  another's  with  the  intent  to
permanently  deprive  the  owner  thereof.  Since  the  defendant  did  not
know that the television was the property of another when he took it
(i.e.,  received  it  from  his  friend),  he  cannot  be  guilty  of  larceny.  B
and C are therefore incorrect.

16.  D  At  common  law,  arson  is  defined  as  the  intentional  or  malicious
burning of the dwelling of another. Any burning that chars some actual
part  of  the  structure  is  sufficient  to  result  in  a  conviction.  Since  the

539

door  was  charred,  there  was  sufficient  burning  to  establish  the
defendant's guilt.

Although modern statutes prohibit the acts described in A, B, and C,
the  question  specifies  that  the  jurisdiction  applies  common  law
definitions of all crimes. Since common law arson involves a burning
of the dwelling of another, and since the structure that the defendant
attempted  to  burn  was  not  a  dwelling  and  was  his  own,  A  is
incorrect.  At  common  law,  larceny  by  trick  is  committed  when  the
defendant defrauds another into parting with temporary possession of
personal  property.  Since  the  insurance  company  gave  the  defendant
title to rather than temporary possession of the policy proceeds, B is
incorrect. Since the building that the defendant burned in C was not a
dwelling, C is incorrect.

17. A  If  a  defendant  makes  a  voluntary  incriminating  statement  that  is  not
induced  by  police  interrogation,  Miranda  does  not  apply  and  the
statement  can  be  used  against  the  defendant  in  court.  Here,  the
defendant  said  “everyone  knows  I  stabbed  the  guy”  in  response  to
“Do you need anything?” Interrogation occurs when the police ask a
question  that  they  should  know  is  reasonably  likely  to  elicit  an
incriminating response from the suspect. “Do you need anything?” is
unlikely to be viewed as such a question.

B  and  D  are  incorrect  because  the  rule  is  that  once  a  defendant
requests  an  attorney,  any  interrogation  must  cease.  There  is  no  rule
requiring that the attorney be produced immediately. In this case, no
interrogation had taken place yet. A “two-step” interrogation is where
a  police  officer  questions  a  suspect,  gets  a  confession,  gives  the
suspect Miranda warnings, and then questions the suspect to get the
confession  again.  Here,  there  is  no  indication  any  interrogation  had
begun, and the second officer's question, “Do you need anything?” is
unlikely  to  be  viewed  as  any  type  of  interrogation.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.

18.  A  An  officer  who  reasonably  suspects  a  person  of  a  crime  may  be
justified  in  questioning  that  person  about  his  or  her  identity  and
activity. If during the course of the conversation, he or she has reason
to  suspect  that  he  or  she  may  be  armed,  he  or  she  is  justified  in
frisking him or her for weapons. If during the course of a legitimate
frisk  for  weapons,  he  or  she  discovers  contraband  in  his  or  her
possession, it may be seized and used as evidence against him or her.

540

The  defendant  was  not  frisked  for  weapons,  however,  but  for  the
stolen statue. In the absence of a warrant or valid arrest, such a search
violates the Fourth Amendment guarantee against unreasonable search
and seizure.

B is incorrect because if a frisk is valid, items discovered during its
course  may  be  seized  and  used  as  evidence,  even  though  they  were
not what the officer was seeking. C is incorrect because there is no
fact  to  indicate  that  the  officer's  suspicion  was  reasonable,  and
because even a reasonable suspicion does not justify any warrantless
search  other  than  a  frisk  for  weapons.  D  is  incorrect  because  the
search  was  for  contraband,  not  for  a  weapon,  so  it  was  not  a  valid
pat-down search.

19. C  A  criminal  conspiracy  is  an  agreement  to  commit  a  crime,  and  it  is
complete  when  two  or  more  persons  make  such  an  agreement.
Although  the  boy  privately  decided  to  assist  the  other  boys  in  the
commission of a crime, he did not agree with them that he would do
so. He is therefore not guilty of conspiracy, and C is correct.

One who knowingly aids and abets in the commission of a crime is
guilty of that crime as an accessory. For this reason, the boy might be
guilty of murder. A is incorrect, however, because the boy is charged
not with murder but with conspiracy. Some jurisdictions hold that to
convict  for  conspiracy,  it  is  necessary  to  prove  an  overt  act  in
addition  to  an  agreement  to  commit  a  crime.  Even  in  these
jurisdictions,  however,  the  boy  would  not  be  guilty  of  conspiracy
because he did not agree to commit a crime. B is therefore incorrect.
Co-conspirators  are  guilty  of  the  crime  of  conspiracy  when  their
agreement is made and are not rendered innocent by the withdrawal
of  one  or  more  of  them  from  the  conspiracy.  D  is  incorrect  for  this
reason, and because the boy was never part of the conspiracy in the
first place.

20.  C  There  are  two  different  forms  of  criminal  assault  —  conduct  that
intentionally  induces  fear,  and  attempted  battery.  Criminal  battery  is
the intentional or reckless application of force to the body of another.
A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to  bring  about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  comes
substantially close to achieving that result. Since the defendant shot at
the President with the intention of hitting him, he attempted a battery.
Since he did not succeed, his crime was assault.

541

A  is  incorrect  because  the  crime  of  which  he  was  acquitted  in  the
federal court was not the same crime with which he is charged in the
state  court.  It  is  generally  held  that  the  constitutional  protection
against double jeopardy is not offended by separate prosecutions for
violating the laws of two different sovereigns (i.e., federal and state
governments) even though both arise from the same act. Assault based
on  intentionally  inducing  fear  requires  that  the  victim  was  aware  of
the  defendant's  conduct,  and  that  as  a  result,  the  victim  experienced
reasonable apprehension of contact. B and D are incorrect, however,
because  assault  based  on  attempted  battery  requires  no  such
awareness or apprehension.

21. B  Many  jurisdictions  hold  that  the  defendant  will  not  be  guilty  of  the
murder  of  a  co-felon  under  the  felony-murder  rule  if  the  co-felon's
death resulted from a justifiable attempt by the victim to prevent the
crime. Although this is not the law in all jurisdictions, it is the only
argument listed that would provide the defendant with any defense at
all.

A is incorrect because the felony-murder rule is applied to deaths that
occur  during  the  commission  of  a  felony,  even  though  the  person
killed  is  not  the  intended  victim.  C is  incorrect  because  the  normal
reactions  of  victims,  bystanders,  and  police  make  violence  a
foreseeable  result  of  any  robbery.  D 
incorrect  because
jurisdictions  that  apply  the  felony-murder  rule  regard  the  intent  to
commit a felony as a form of malice aforethought.

is 

22.  D  Involuntary  manslaughter  is  an  unintended  killing  that  results  from
conduct that created a high and unreasonable risk of death or serious
injury or from the commission of a malum in se misdemeanor. If the
defendant's  conduct  created  such  risk,  he  could  thus  be  guilty  of
involuntary  manslaughter.  While  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would
come  to  this  conclusion,  D  is  the  only  argument  listed  that  could
possibly support the prosecution.

The unlawful act doctrine (also called the misdemeanor-manslaughter
rule)  might  make  a  death  resulting  from  the  commission  of  a
misdemeanor  involuntary  manslaughter,  but  only  if  the  misdemeanor
involved  is  inherently  dangerous  or  malum  in  se.  Since  driving
without a license is neither, A is incorrect. B is incorrect because it
is  based  on  a  perversion  of  a  rule  of  tort  law  that  provides  that  the
violation of a statute that was designed to protect a class of persons

542

to which the plaintiff belongs from the risk that resulted in harm may
be  described  as  negligence  per  se.  There  is  no  counterpart  in  the
criminal  law,  however.  C  is  not  an  accurate  statement  since  mere
negligence will not result in a criminal conviction.

23. B Ordinarily, an omission (i.e., failure to act) does not lead to criminal
responsibility  unless  it  violated  a  legal  duty  to  act.  The  lifeguard's
duty to aid people at the swimming pool existed only because she was
employed as a lifeguard, and therefore it was in force only during her
hours of employment. Since her supervisor allowed her to leave at 8
P.M., her hours of employment ended at that time. For this reason, she
may  successfully  argue  that  she  had  no  duty  to  rescue  someone  who
came into peril after she left the pool.

If  she  did  have  a  legal  duty  to  render  aid,  her  absence  could  be  a
violation of that duty. A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Since  any  death  may
have  more  than  one  cause,  the  fact  that  the  adult's  inaction  was  a
cause  of  the  girl's  death  does  not  establish  that  criminal  conduct  by
the  lifeguard  was  not  also  a  cause.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect because, at common law and under statutes, there are many
forms of criminal homicide that can be committed without the intent
to cause the death of a person.

24.  A  Under  the  common  law,  rape  is  committed  when  the  defendant
intentionally  has  sexual  intercourse  with  a  female,  not  his  wife,
without  her  consent.  Although  it  is  necessary  that  the  victim  be
unwilling, it is not necessary for her to put up a fight if it would be
futile for her to do so or if she reasonably believes that resisting will
cause  her  to  sustain  serious  injury.  Since  the  victim's  refusal  was
overcome by a threat that would have led a reasonable person in her
place to fear for her life, the intercourse was without her consent.

If  her  resistance  had  been  overcome  by  payment,  the  intercourse
would  not  have  been  against  her  will.  But  the  fact  that  she  was
willing  to  accept  payment  does  not  mean  that  she  consented  to
intercourse  with  one  who  did  not  offer  payment,  or  even  with  one
who did. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because the victim's
resistance was overcome by the defendant's threat of physical force.
Since the victim inflicted the injuries after the intercourse occurred,
her conduct in inflicting them could not possibly relate to whether she
consented to the intercourse. D is therefore incorrect.

543

25.  C  Murder  is  the  unjustified  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought. Since malice aforethought includes the intent to kill, and
since the defendant held the baby's head under water in an attempt to
end  his  life,  the  defendant  had  the  necessary  mental  state  and
committed  the  necessary  act  to  make  her  criminally  responsible  for
murder. It is also necessary, however, for the prosecution to show that
her act was a proximate cause of the baby's death. Since there is no
clear indication that this is so, it is possible that the defendant may be
acquitted  of  murder.  In  addition,  many  states  have  rules  that  fix  a
period of time (usually one to three years) following a defendant's act
and  provide  that  no  death  occurring  after  that  time  is  proximately
caused  by  the  act.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that  her  argument  will
succeed, it is the only one listed that could possibly provide her with
an effective defense.

A is incorrect because no constitutional right to an abortion has been
found to exist in the last three months of pregnancy, and because the
baby was born alive. The defendant's attempt to save the baby's life
after she tried to kill him is not sufficient to relieve her of criminal
liability  for  his  death  if  his  death  was  proximately  caused  by  her
previous conduct. B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Even  though  the  surgical
procedure  that  the  defendant  performed  did  not  usually  result  in  the
death of a human being, her attempt to kill the baby after he was born
makes D incorrect.

26. D One who intentionally kills another under the mistaken but reasonable
belief  that  he  or  she  was  defending  himself  or  herself  against
imminent  bodily  harm  may  be  protected  by  the  privilege  of  self-
defense and therefore be found not guilty of any criminal homicide. If
his or her belief was unreasonable, however, he or she is still guilty
of  voluntary  manslaughter,  although  not  of  murder.  A  is  incorrect,
because if the reasonable person would not have had held the belief,
the  defendant  is  guilty  of  voluntary  manslaughter.  B  is  incorrect
because if the defendant did not hold the belief, she is not only guilty
of voluntary manslaughter but of murder as well.

27. D Persons are guilty of conspiracy to commit a particular crime when
they  agree  to  commit  it.  At  common  law,  burglary  is  defined  as
breaking  and  entering  into  the  dwelling  of  another  at  night  for  the
purpose  of  committing  a  larceny  or  any  felony  therein.  Since  the
agreement was to break into an office rather than a dwelling, and to

544

do  so  at  lunchtime  rather  than  nighttime,  it  was  not  a  conspiracy  to
commit burglary. At common law, larceny is defined as intentionally
taking and carrying off the personal property of another with the intent
to  permanently  deprive  the  owner  of  it.  Since  the  agreement  was  to
copy but not carry off the professor's notes, it was not a conspiracy to
commit larceny. A, B, and C are thus incorrect.

28. A  Murder  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  another  with  malice  aforethought.
Even if there is no intent to kill, malice aforethought can be implied
when  there  is  a  reckless  indifference  to  an  unjustifiably  high  risk  to
human  life.  This  is  also  known  as  depraved  heart  murder.  Here,
because  the  defendant  shot  as  close  as  he  could  to  his  friend  as  his
friend  ran  in  front  of  a  concrete  wall,  a  court  would  likely  find  he
acted with reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human
life.  Consequently,  he  could  be  charged  with  murder.  D is  therefore
incorrect.

In most cases, voluntary manslaughter requires the defendant to kill in
the  “heat  of  passion.”  This  requires  some  type  of  provocation  that
causes the defendant to lose self-control. B is incorrect because there
was  no  provocation.  A  defendant  can  be  found  guilty  of  involuntary
manslaughter  when  his  or  her  behavior  is  grossly  negligent  and  an
accidental  death  results.  As  stated  above,  a  court  would  likely  find
the defendant's actions to be more than negligence, so C is incorrect.

29.  B  Obtaining  property  by  false  pretenses  is  committed  when,  with  the
intent  to  cause  the  victim  to  transfer  title  to  personal  property,  the
defendant makes a fraudulent misrepresentation that causes the victim
to  do  so.  Since  the  chemist  told  the  hunter  that  the  pills  were  made
from a secret formula that would protect him against the venom when
she  knew  that  statement  to  be  false,  and  since  she  did  so  for  the
purpose of obtaining money from him and succeeded in doing so, she
is guilty of false pretenses.

Attempted  murder  requires  a  specific  intent  to  cause  the  death  of  a
human  being.  Intent  to  cause  death  requires  either  the  desire  or
substantial certainty that death will result. Since the chemist believed
that  the  hunter  would  not  be  bitten  if  he  took  the  sugar  pills,  she
lacked the intent necessary to make her liable for attempted murder.
A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

30. D Self-defense is a privilege to use reasonable force to protect oneself

545

against  aggression.  In  determining  whether  force  was  reasonable,
courts usually balance the danger likely to result from its use against
the  benefit  of  using  it.  If  the  benefit  that  would  be  apparent  to  the
reasonable  person  in  the  defendant's  situation  outweighs  the  danger
that  would  be  apparent  to  the  reasonable  person  in  the  defendant's
situation, the force that the defendant used was reasonable. Since it is
generally  understood  that  the  reasonable  person  would  consider  the
benefit of saving his or her own life to be of greater weight than the
danger of killing an assailant, it is usually held that lethal force (i.e.,
force likely to kill or do serious bodily harm) is reasonable if used by
a  person  who  reasonably  believes  that  he  or  she  is  being  attacked
with  lethal  force.  Thus,  if  it  was  reasonable  for  the  defendant  to
believe that her life was in danger, it was probably reasonable for her
to use lethal force to protect it.

A is incorrect because the defendant was attempting to protect herself
rather than the cocaine. Even if the drug addict was actually unarmed,
the  defendant's  reasonable  belief  that  he  had  a  pistol  might  have
privileged  her  use  of  lethal  force  in  self-defense.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. A person who is committing a crime has no right to defend
himself or herself against a lawful arrest. Since the drug addict was
not attempting to arrest the defendant, however, the fact that she was
committing  a  crime  at  the  time  of  his  attack  is  irrelevant.  C  is
therefore incorrect.

31.  A  Battery  is  an  intentional  harmful  or  offensive  touching  of  another
person.  Shooting  someone  with  a  shotgun  is  clearly  a  battery.  A  co-
conspirator in a criminal operation is liable for any crimes committed
by another co-conspirator if the crime was foreseeable and committed
in furtherance of the conspiracy. Here, the brothers conspired to run a
methamphetamine  lab.  The  shooting  was  foreseeable  because  the
brothers kept the shotgun around to protect the lab. The shooting was
committed  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy  because  the  defendant's
brother  was  protecting  the  lab  when  he  shot  the  undercover  officer.
Consequently,  the  defendant  would  be  liable  for  the  battery.  C  is
therefore incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  defendant  would  be  liable  based  on  the
conspiracy,  not  because  he  acted  with  any  type  of  reckless
indifference.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  question  of  whether  drug
dealing is dangerous or not has no effect on the relevant analysis.

546

32.  D  Embezzlement  is  the  conversion  of  personal  property  known  to  be
another's with the intent to defraud, by a person in lawful possession
of the property. Since the seller's possession was the result of fraud
and  therefore  not  lawful,  he  is  not  guilty  of  embezzlement.  A  and  C
are  therefore  incorrect.  Larceny  by  trick  is  committed  when  the
defendant  fraudulently  induces  the  victim  to  deliver  possession  of
personal property to the defendant. If the victim transfers title to the
property  involved,  the  crime  of  larceny  by  trick  has  not  been
committed.  Since  the  buyer's  intention  was  to  make  the  seller  the
owner of the money, he transferred title to the money, and therefore B
and C are incorrect.

33. C Although killing with the intent, at least, to cause great bodily harm is
ordinarily  classified  as  murder,  it  may  be  reduced  to  voluntary
manslaughter if the defendant was acting in the heat of passion. This
is  only  so,  however,  if  the  provocation  that  produced  the  passion
would have done so in the person of ordinary temperament.

A is a fabrication; there is no “theory of deliberate provocation.” B is
incorrect  because  the  objective  standard  described  above  (i.e.,  the
person  of  ordinary  temperament)  makes  the  wife's  emotional
peculiarities irrelevant. D is based on a misinterpretation of the law.
An intentional killing may be reduced from murder to manslaughter if
the defendant was acting under the mistaken belief that the killing was
justified. This is known as the theory of mistaken justification. D  is
incorrect because the wife did not act in the mistaken belief that she
was justified, and because D would erroneously apply the theory to
prevent reduction to manslaughter.

34. C At common law, burglary is defined as breaking and entering into the
dwelling  of  another  at  night  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  larceny  or
felony therein. If, at the time the defendant entered, he did not intend
to commit an act that would amount to a crime, he cannot be guilty of
burglary.

A “breaking” occurs when the defendant creates the opening through
which  he  or  she  enters,  even  though  no  force  is  used.  A  and  B  are
incorrect, because by opening the door to the victim's apartment, the
defendant  created  the  opening  through  which  he  entered,  thus
committing  the  necessary  breaking.  The  crime  of  burglary  is
committed, if at all, at the time the unlawful entry takes place with the
requisite state of mind. Conduct performed subsequently (i.e., leaving

547

a note) does not undo a crime that has already been committed. D is
therefore incorrect.

35.  C  Since  all  the  incidents  of  unconsciousness  occurred  within  three
months after the accident and nearly three years ago, it was probably
reasonable  for  the  defendant  to  believe  that  they  would  not  occur
again.  If  she  entertained  that  belief,  and  if  it  was  reasonable,  she
cannot  be  said  to  have  knowingly  disregarded  the  plain  and  strong
likelihood of harm as required by the statute. Although it is not certain
that  a  court  would  come  to  that  conclusion,  C  contains  the  only
argument listed that could possibly support the defendant's defense.

A  is  incorrect  because  if  the  defendant  did  knowingly  disregard  the
plain  and  strong  likelihood  of  further  blackouts,  it  would  not  matter
what caused them. B is incorrect because the crime, if any, took place
when the defendant drove in knowing disregard, and so would have
already  been  committed  by  the  time  the  defendant  passed  out.  D  is
incorrect because the statute does not require knowledge that death or
serious  injury  will  result,  but  only  knowledge  that  there  is  a  strong
likelihood that it will.

36.  D  The  Fourth  Amendment  only  protects  people  from  searches  and
seizures  that  are  carried  out  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  government.
Consequently,  if  the  government  is  not  involved  in  the  search,  the
the  Fourth
Fourth  Amendment  does  not  apply. 
Amendment is not violated if a private person, acting alone, conducts
a  search  or  seizure  and  then  passes  the  evidence  along  to  the
government. Here, the man was acting purely as a private citizen. The
fact that he then gave the evidence he discovered to the police does
not  turn  him  into  a  government  agent  answerable  to  the  Fourth
Amendment.

Importantly, 

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

37.  A  Voluntary  manslaughter  is  committed  when  the  defendant,  with  the
intent to cause death or great bodily harm, causes the death of a human
being  under  circumstances  such  that  the  defendant  is  acting  in  the
“heat of passion.” The belief that the neighbor brutally murdered his
family probably is sufficient to furnish the heat of passion that reduces
the crime from murder to manslaughter.

B is incorrect for two reasons: First, deliberation and premeditation
require a mind that is capable of thinking coolly and rationally, and

548

under the circumstances, the defendant probably wasn't, and second,
deliberation  and  premeditation  are  not  elements  of  voluntary
manslaughter.  Since  voluntary  manslaughter  is  a  lesser  offense
included in first degree murder, the defendant could be convicted of
voluntary manslaughter even if he were guilty of first degree murder.
C  is  incorrect  because  it  suggests  that  guilt  of  first  degree  murder
would  prevent  a  conviction  for  voluntary  manslaughter.  Convicting
and sentencing for crime are functions of the court, not of the family
of  the  crime's  victim.  D  is  incorrect  because  it  suggests  a  law  of
vendetta (i.e., that if the neighbor was the killer, the defendant could
punish him without incurring criminal responsibility).

38. D Larceny is a trespassory taking and carrying off of personal property
known  to  be  another's  with  the  intent  to  permanently  deprive  the
owner of it. Although the defendant planned to return the money in the
event of one contingency, she planned not to return it in the event of
another. This contingent intent to permanently deprive is sufficient to
make her guilty of larceny when she took and carried off the money on
Friday night.

A is incorrect because she took the money with the intent (contingent
at least) to permanently deprive the owner. B is incorrect because she
intended  not  to  return  it  if  she  lost.  Since  the  crime  was  committed
when she took the money, the fact that she did or did not return it all
on Monday morning is irrelevant. C is therefore incorrect.

39. B Although most statutes that forbid the sale of alcohol to minors impose
strict liability (i.e., defendant's knowledge is not an element), this one
does not because it prohibits only the knowing sale. If the defendant
reasonably  believed  that  the  teenager  was  over  the  age  of  21,  he
lacked the knowledge that is requisite to a conviction.

Not  knowing  whether  wine  was  an  intoxicating  substance  under  the
statute would not be a defense because all persons are conclusively
presumed to know the law. Ignorance of the law is not a defense. A is
therefore incorrect. Entrapment is available as a defense only when a
police officer induced the defendant to commit a crime that he or she
was  not  already  disposed  to  commit.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
police officer did nothing to encourage the sale. The statute prohibits
the  sale  of  intoxicating  substances  without  regard  to  whether  or  not
anyone becomes intoxicated by them. D is therefore incorrect.

549

40. D Under the “unlawful act doctrine” (also known as the “misdemeanor-
manslaughter  rule”),  a  person  may  be  guilty  of 
involuntary
manslaughter if a death results from his or her commission of a crime
that is malum in se or inherently dangerous. Neither of these factors
exists  here.  Therefore,  A  is  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because
voluntary manslaughter requires the intent to kill or cause great bodily
harm,  and  the  knowledge  that  death  is  possible  is  not  sufficient  to
constitute  such  intent.  Most  jurisdictions  hold  that  criminal  or
culpable negligence that results in death may support a conviction for
involuntary  manslaughter.  In  some  of  those  jurisdictions,  culpable
negligence  is  defined  as  unreasonable  conduct  in  the  face  of  a
foreseeable risk. In others, more is required: either that the defendant
knew  of  the  risk  and  willfully  disregarded  it,  or  that  under  the
circumstances  known  to  the  defendant,  his  or  her  conduct  created  a
high degree of risk of death or serious bodily injury. Since the facts
do not indicate that the defendant engaged in unreasonable conduct in
the face of a foreseeable risk, willfully disregarded a known risk, or
under the circumstances knew her conduct created a high risk of death
or serious bodily injury, C is incorrect because there is no evidence
of criminal negligence.

41. B Self-defense involves a privilege to use reasonable force to prevent
what is reasonably perceived as a threat of imminent bodily harm. If a
defendant makes a mistake regarding the need for self-defense, courts
will  look  at  whether  such  a  mistake  was  reasonable.  If  the  mistake
was reasonable, the defendant is entitled to claim he or she acted in
self-defense. Here, the recent robberies, time of day, robber's threat,
and the metal spatula handle in the back likely made it reasonable for
the defendant to believe he was in danger of being shot. A is incorrect
because the primary question is whether the defendant's actions were
reasonable,  not  whether  they  were  justified. C  is  incorrect  because
self-defense does not require a defendant to verify the truth of his or
her belief; it just requires that that belief is reasonable. D is incorrect
because  the  circumstances  here  likely  made  the  defendant's  actions
reasonable.

42. A A person is guilty as an accessory to a crime when he or she aids and
abets  in  its  perpetration.  At  common  law,  a  defendant  commits  rape
when he or she has sexual intercourse with a woman who is not his
wife  without  the  woman's  consent.  Although  under  this  definition  a
husband cannot be guilty as a principal of raping his wife, he can be

550

guilty  as  an  accessory  if  he  aids  and  abets  another  to  have  sexual
intercourse with her without her consent. Since the defendant assisted
the  drug  dealer  in  committing  rape  (i.e.,  having  intercourse  with  the
wife without her consent), he is guilty of rape as an accessory.

Depending  on  the  statutory  definitions  of  procuring  for  prostitution
and  possession  of  narcotics,  the  defendant  may  be  guilty  of  all  the
crimes  listed.  B, C,  and  D  are  incorrect,  however,  because  rape  is
clearly the most serious of them.

43.  A  Larceny  is  defined  as  the  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  off  of
personal  property  known  to  be  another's  with  the  intent 
to
permanently  deprive  the  owner  thereof.  Since  the  defendant's  taking
and carrying off of the candy dish was inconsistent with his friend's
rights,  it  was  trespassory.  Since  the  defendant  knew  that  the  candy
dish  was  his  friend's,  and  since  giving  it  to  his  sister  as  a  wedding
present  would  permanently  deprive  his  friend  of  it,  he  committed
larceny, and A is correct.

Burglary  is  the  breaking  and  entering  into  the  dwelling  house  of
another  for  the  purpose  of  committing  a  felony  therein.  Since  the
defendant entered to recover his own camera, his purpose was not to
commit  a  felony,  and  he  is  not  guilty  of  burglary,  B  is  therefore
incorrect.  A  person  is  guilty  of  a  criminal  attempt  when,  with  the
specific intent to bring about a result that is criminally prohibited, he
or  she  comes  substantially  close  to  bringing  about  that  result.  Since
the defendant did not have the purpose of committing a felony inside
his  friend's  home,  he  lacked  the  intent  necessary  for  burglary  and
therefore could not be convicted of attempted burglary. C is therefore
incorrect. D is incorrect because the defendant is guilty of larceny as
explained above. The larceny was committed at the moment that the
defendant  carried  off  the  candy  dish  with  the  requisite  intent,  and  it
was not uncommitted when he returned the item.

44. C  A  person  is  guilty  of  attempting  to  commit  a  crime  when,  with  the
specific intent to bring about a criminally prohibited result, he or she
comes  substantially  close  to  achieving  that  result.  Since  involuntary
manslaughter  is  unintended  homicide,  there  can  be  no  attempt  to
commit it because the requisite state of mind cannot exist.

A and B are therefore incorrect. Since there is no requirement that a
person  be  prosecuted  for  the  highest  possible  crime  that  he  or  she

551

committed, D is incorrect.

45. C The defendant obviously did not have the intent to cause the death of
the  accomplice  and  was  obviously  not  engaged  in  committing  rape,
robbery,  or  kidnapping  at  the  time  that  the  accomplice  was  killed.
Under the common law definition, burglary is a breaking and entering
into the dwelling of another at night for the purpose of committing a
felony  therein.  Since  the  defendant  was  not  attempting  to  enter  a
dwelling house, he was not committing a burglary either.

A  is  incorrect  because  most  jurisdictions  apply  the  felony-murder
rule to the killing of one felon by another. B is incorrect because the
statute  does  not  require  that  the  felony  being  committed  is  a
dangerous  one.  While  assumption  of  the  risk  is  a  defense  in  tort
actions, it is not in criminal prosecutions. D is therefore incorrect.

46. D The victim of a crime does not share the guilt of the perpetrator, even
though  the  victim's  participation  was  necessary  to  the  crime's
commission.  If  the  law  was  designed  to  protect  people  in  the
defendant's  position  against  people  in  the  personnel  manager's
position, the defendant can be regarded as the victim of the personnel
manager's  act  and  thus  escape  criminal  liability.  While  it  is  not
certain that a court would be persuaded by this argument, it is the only
one listed that could possibly result in dismissal.

Although the statement contained in A was correct at early common
law, it is no longer true in a majority of jurisdictions. B is factually
incorrect, since the personnel manager could not have committed the
crime if the defendant had not paid him the money. Under Wharton's
Rule,  persons  who  agree  to  commit  a  crime  cannot  be  convicted  of
conspiracy  unless  at  least  one  of  them  was  not  essential  to  the
commission of that crime. Wharton's Rule applies to bigamy, incest,
gambling, bribery, adultery, and dueling. Since the crime created by
the  statute  could  not  have  been  committed  by  one  person  alone,
Wharton's  Rule  would  prevent  the  conviction  of  the  personnel
manager and the defendant for conspiracy to commit it. C is incorrect,
however, because the defendant is not being charged with conspiracy,
but  with  being  an  accessory  to  the  substantive  crime,  and  because
accessories frequently are people without whom the crime could not
have been committed.

47.  A  Robbery  is  larceny  accomplished  by  force  or  a  threat  of  force

552

directed at the lawful possessor of the property taken. The defendant's
snatching of the purse was accomplished by force, and the hand in his
pocket coupled with his words constituted a threat of force.

Larceny  by  trick  requires  that  the  victim  give  up  the  property  in
reliance on the defendant's fraud. Since the victim's purse was taken
by  force,  B  is  incorrect.  Embezzlement  is  criminal  conversion  of
personal  property  by  one  in  lawful  possession.  C  is  incorrect
because  the  defendant  did  not  obtain  possession  of  the  property
lawfully. Larceny by false pretenses involves a misrepresentation of
fact  that  is  intended  to  and  does  in  fact  cause  the  victim  to  transfer
title  to  property.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  victim  did  not  transfer
title to the defendant.

48. A Larceny is a trespassory taking and carrying off of property known to
be  another's  with  the  intent  to  permanently  deprive.  There  is  no
requirement  that  the  victim's  possession  of  the  property  be  lawful.
The  defendant's  taking  of  the  plant  was  trespassory,  and  therefore  a
larceny,  because  she  had  been  authorized  to  water  it,  not  to  carry  it
off. The defendant could not be guilty of burglary since her use of the
key  that  the  doctor  gave  her  prevents  her  entry  from  constituting  a
breaking, which requires force against the premises.

49. B  Rape  is  sexual  intercourse  without  consent  of  the  female.  Since  the
bank  teller's  resistance  was  overcome  by  the  defendant's  threat  and
her  resulting  fear  of  death,  the  intercourse  occurred  without  her
consent. One who commands another to do an act is responsible for
the  criminal  consequences  thereof.  Although  the  defendant  did  not
himself  have  sexual  intercourse  with  the  teller,  he  is  guilty  of  rape
because  he  commanded  the  bank  manager  to  do  so.  Solicitation  is
committed  by  encouraging,  ordering,  or  commanding  another  to
commit  a  crime.  If  the  person  solicited  actually  commits  the  crime,
however,  solicitation  merges  with  the  substantive  crime  and  is  not
subject to separate prosecution.

50. B Ordinarily, no person has standing to assert the constitutional rights of
another. For this reason, a defendant who seeks to suppress evidence
seized  as  the  result  of  the  search  of  another  person  may  not
successfully  argue  that  the  search  and  seizure  were  unconstitutional
unless he or she had a sufficient possessory or proprietary interest in
the  thing  searched  to  give  him  or  her  a  reasonable  expectation  of
privacy that was violated by the search. Since the car and the pistol

553

were  both  the  man's,  and  since  the  defendant  thus  could  not  have  a
reasonable  expectation  of  privacy,  the  defendant  has  no  standing  to
object to the search, and his motion should be denied.

For  the  reasons  stated  above,  C  and  D  are  incorrect.  Usually,  a
search  without  a  warrant  violates  the  rights  of  the  person  searched
unless it is incident to a lawful arrest. Since the facts do not indicate
that  the  man  was  arrested  prior  to  the  search  of  his  glove
compartment,  the  search  probably  did  violate  his  rights.  A  is
therefore incorrect.

51. D Under the common law, burglary is the breaking and entering into the
dwelling house of another, at night, with the intent to commit a felony
therein.  Most  states  have  changed  burglary  to  include  entry  into  any
kind of structure at any time of the day. Here, since what the man was
intending to do wasn't a crime, he can't be convicted of burglary.

A is incorrect because the issue is whether what the man intended to
do  was  a  felony,  not  that  the  man  intended  to  commit  a  felony  by
doing something that wasn't actually a crime. B is incorrect because
the  burglary  would  have  been  complete  the  minute  he  entered  the
church  if  what  he  was  doing  was  actually  a  felony.  Importantly,
burglary  requires  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony,  not  its  actual
completion.  C  is  incorrect  because  his  underlying  actions  did  not
actually  add  up  to  burglary,  so  he  clearly  could  not  be  liable  for
attempt.

52.  A  A  search  may  be  lawful  if  consent  is  given  by  one  in  apparent
authority  to  do  so.  If  the  student  actually  was  the  defendant's
roommate,  she  would  have  had  authority  to  consent  to  a  search  of
common areas of their room. Since she told the police that she was,
and since she had a key to the room, it was probably reasonable for
them  to  believe  her.  Her  apparent  authority  might,  thus,  justify  the
search. While a court might not find it to be so, the argument in A is
the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  denial  of  the
defendant's motion.

B  is  incorrect  because  although  information  received  from  an
informant  might  furnish  probable  cause  sufficient  to  permit  the
issuance of a warrant, the informant's belief is not sufficient to justify
a  warrantless  search.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  defendant  had  no
expectation  that  any  other  person  would  enter  the  room  in  her

554

absence.  Although  she  knew  that  the  sorority  retained  a  copy  of  her
room key, she knew also that this was done to facilitate duplication in
the  event  that  a  resident  lost  her  key.  D  is  incorrect  because  even
though  there  are  some  cases  indicating  that  a  primary  or  secondary
school  administrator  can  consent  to  a  search  of  a  locker  used  by  a
student,  this  view  has  not  been  applied  to  college  students  or  to
searches  of  a  student's  room,  and  the  student  was  not  a  school
administrator.

53. B One who, with the intent that a crime will be committed, encourages

another to commit that crime, is liable for it as an accessory.

A is incorrect because mere presence at the scene of a crime is not
sufficient, even if the defendant intended or was willing for the crime
to be committed. C is incorrect because the words of encouragement
need  not  create  a  new  danger  for  liability  to  be  imposed.  D  is
incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  under  some  circumstances,  words
alone might be sufficient, and second, here, the words were coupled
with intent.

54. A Under the M'Naghten test, a person may be found not guilty by reason
of insanity only if mental illness prevented him or her from knowing
the  nature  and  quality  of  his  or  her  act  or  from  knowing  that  the  act
was legally wrong. Since the defendant knew what he was doing (i.e.,
that he was poisoning the governor), and he knew that it was against
the law, he was not insane.

B  refers  to  the  irresistible  impulse  supplement,  and  it  is  incorrect
because  the  facts  indicate  that  the  jurisdiction  has  adopted  only  the
M'Naghten test. C is incorrect because it refers to the Durham Rule,
which is no longer applied in any jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions,
a  defendant  is  insane  under  the  M'Naghten  rule  if  mental  disease
caused  him  or  her  to  suffer  from  a  delusion  within  the  context  of
which the defendant's act would be lawful. D is incorrect, however,
because  even  within  the  context  of  the  defendant's  delusion,  the
defendant knew that killing the governor was an unlawful act.

55. B  Although  statutory  rape  is  sometimes  called  a  strict  liability  crime,
this  means  only  that  liability  can  be  imposed  even  though  the
defendant  was  not  aware  that  the  female  with  whom  he  was  having
intercourse  was  underage.  No  liability  can  be  imposed,  however,
unless the defendant had intent to engage in intercourse.

555

A is incorrect because liability for involuntary manslaughter may be
imposed  if  the  victim's  death  resulted  from  reckless  conduct  by  the
defendant. Driving while drunk may be sufficiently reckless to result
in liability. C is incorrect because even if the defendant did not know
that she was drunk, it may have been reckless for her to drive while
she  knew  that  her  vision  and  motor  abilities  were  impaired.  Since
voluntary manslaughter is the killing of a human being with the intent
to  kill  or  to  cause  great  bodily  harm  under  circumstances  of  great
emotional  distress,  D  is  incorrect  because  the  facts  asserted  by  the
defendant would inculpate rather than exculpate him.

56.  C  Murder  is  defined  as  criminal  homicide  with  malice  aforethought.
Since  homicide  involves  an  act  that  causes  the  death  of  a  human
being,  and  since  the  victim's  death  in  C  did  not  result  from  the
defendant's  act,  the  defendant  could  not  be  guilty  of  murdering  the
victim.

Malice  aforethought  is  the  intent  to  kill,  the  intent  to  cause  great
bodily harm, the intent to commit a felony, the intent to escape from
lawful custody, or acting with wanton disregard for human life. A is
incorrect  because  the  defendant's  desire  to  cause  the  victim  great
bodily  harm  might  constitute  malice  aforethought.  B  is  incorrect
because knowledge of the victim's identity is not a material element
of  either  murder  or  of  malice  aforethought.  Since  the  defendant  did
intend to cause the victim's death, he had the requisite mens rea, even
though he believed the victim to be someone else. D is incorrect for
two reasons: First, shooting at the bank guard was a felony, and the
intent  to  commit  a  felony  may  constitute  malice  aforethought  in  a
prosecution  for  the  death  of  any  person  killed  during  the  course  of
that felony, and second, starting a gun battle in a bank can be regarded
as wanton disregard for human life, which may also constitute malice
aforethought.

57. D An examination of a defendant's effects is a search if it is conducted
under  circumstances 
reasonable
that  violate 
expectation  of  privacy.  Ordinarily,  a  person  has  a  reasonable
expectation that an apartment that he or she has the exclusive right to
occupy  will  remain  private.  For  this  reason,  the  inspection  of  the
defendant's apartment probably violated his reasonable expectation of
privacy  and  therefore  was  a  search.  Ordinarily,  a  search  of  a
defendant's effects violates his or her Fourth Amendment rights unless

the  defendant's 

556

it  is  conducted  pursuant  to  a  warrant.  Since  the  examination  of  the
defendant's  apartment  was  conducted  without  a  warrant,  it  violated
the  defendant's  rights.  Evidence  seized  in  violation  of  a  defendant's
Fourth Amendment rights is inadmissible under the exclusionary rule.

A is incorrect because the plastic pouch was not in plain sight until
the officer entered, and the entry itself violated the defendant's rights.
B is incorrect because a landlord does not have the power to waive
his  or  her  tenant's  constitutional  rights  —  even  if  he  or  she  is  the
tenant's  mother.  At  one  time,  Miranda  warnings  were  not  required
until a person became a suspect. No such qualification ever applied
to  the  right  to  be  secure  against  unreasonable  search  and  seizure,
however. C is therefore incorrect.

58. A  Since  the  statute  requires  knowledge  that  the  statement  is  false,  and
since  the  defendant  believed  the  statement  to  be  true,  he  lacked  the
required mental state to be guilty of perjury.

D is therefore incorrect. If, as the result of his attorney's advice, the
defendant  believed  that  he  had  not  been  convicted  of  a  crime,  he
lacked the knowledge necessary to make him guilty under the statute.
However,  the  defendant's  reliance  on  the  advice  of  counsel  would
not, in itself, have prevented him from being guilty unless he actually
believed  that  advice,  so  B  is  incorrect.  Since  a  guilty  plea  is
equivalent to a conviction, C is incorrect.

59. D Kidnapping is defined as the intentional asportation and confinement
of a person against that person's will, by force or threat, and without
lawful  authority.  Since  the  defendant  did  not  know  that  the  daughter
was in the car when he drove it away, he lacked the requisite intent.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  kidnapping  has  no
equivalent of the felony-murder rule. C is incorrect since if he knew
that  the  daughter  was  in  the  car,  the  defendant  could  be  guilty  of
kidnapping even if the asportation of the daughter was secondary to
his stealing of the car.

60.  D  The  double  jeopardy  clause  prevents  a  person  from  being  placed
twice  in  jeopardy  for  the  same  offense.  This  does  not  prevent
prosecution by two separate sovereigns for crimes arising out of the
same  transaction,  however,  because  a  different  offense  has  been
committed  against  each  sovereign.  In  addition,  the  two  crimes  with
which  the  defendant  is  charged  are  not  identical.  (The  federal

557

prosecution  is  for  illegal  importation;  the  state  prosecution  is  for
illegal possession.)

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  since  it  has  been  held  that
customs agents have probable cause to search the car of any person
entering  the  United  States.  C  is  incorrect  because  it  is  generally
understood that jeopardy begins as soon as a trial commences.

61. B Since the statute prohibits possession of a skeleton key with the intent
to  commit  an  unlawful  entry,  and  since  the  defendant  was,  in  fact,
attempting  to  effect  an  unlawful  entry  with  his  skeleton  key,  he  is
guilty of violating the statute.

A is incorrect because the fact that the defendant was a professional
thief is not enough to make him guilty of violating any law, even one
designed to protect the public against professional thieves. The crime
defined  by  the  statute  would  merge  into  the  crime  of  attempted
burglary if the defendant was charged with or convicted of attempted
burglary. But in the absence of an attempted burglary charge, there is
no reason why the lesser crime cannot be prosecuted. C is therefore
incorrect.  A  careful  reading  of  the  statute  discloses  that  it  punishes
conduct  (i.e.,  possession  of  a  skeleton  key)  coupled  with  a  guilty
mind. D is therefore incorrect.

62. B Since the statute defines as third degree manslaughter any death that
proximately  results  from  the  commission  of  a  crime,  the  defendant
cannot  be  found  guilty  under  the  statute  unless  the  victim's  death
proximately resulted from his crime.

Although the common law misdemeanor-manslaughter rule is applied
only  to  deaths  resulting  from  the  commission  of  misdemeanors  that
are  mala  in  se,  the  statute  given  makes  no  such  requirement.  A  is
therefore incorrect. C is incorrect for the same reason, and because
there is no indication that the defendant was driving while intoxicated
at the time the accident occurred. D is incorrect because neither the
common  law  rule  nor  the  statute  requires  that  the  risk  be  a
foreseeable one.

63. C One who intentionally aids or facilitates the commission of a crime is
guilty of the crime as an accessory. Robbery is larceny committed by
force  or  threat  of  force.  Although  the  defendant  did  not  point  a  gun
and demand money, she aided and abetted the student by operating the
getaway  car.  She  is  thus  guilty  as  an  accessory.  Conspiracy  is  an

558

agreement to commit a crime made by two or more people who have
specific intent. The defendant and the student committed the crime of
conspiracy when they agreed on the commission of the robbery.

A, B, and D are incorrect because the crime of conspiracy is separate
from  and  does  not  merge  into  the  substantive  crime  that  the
conspirators agreed to commit.

64. B A defendant is guilty of murder when he or she proximately causes the
death  of  another  human  being  unlawfully  and  with  malice
aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  consists  of  the  intent  to  kill,  the
intent  to  cause  great  bodily  harm,  escape  from  lawful  custody,  the
commission  of  a  felony,  or  reckless  disregard  for  human  life.  Since
there are no facts indicating that the defendant in B intended to kill or
cause harm, was escaping from lawful custody, or engaged in conduct
demonstrating  a  reckless  disregard  for  human  life,  the  only  way  he
could  be  convicted  of  murder  would  be  if  the  pedestrian's  death
proximately resulted from the commission of a felony. There is no fact
indicating that violation of the insurance statute was a felony. Even if
it was, the violation was not causally related to the pedestrian's death
since the death would have occurred whether or not the vehicle was
insured.  For  this  reason,  the  defendant  could  not  be  convicted  of
murder.

An  unlawful  killing  committed  with  the  intent  to  kill  or  inflict  great
bodily  harm  might  be  voluntary  manslaughter  if  the  defendant  was
acting under extreme emotional distress or mistaken justification. The
defendant in A might still be convicted of murder, however, because
the  lapse  of  time  between  his  discovery  of  the  atrocity  that  the
neighbor  committed  and  his  killing  of  the  neighbor  could  prevent  a
court  from  finding  that  he  was  acting  under  extreme  emotional
distress. A is therefore incorrect. Although the defendant in C did not
have  an  intent  to  kill,  his  conduct  might  be  regarded  as  sufficiently
reckless to result in a conviction for murder. Although it is possible
that the defendant in D was acting under sufficient emotional distress
for  the  killing  to  be  regarded  as  voluntary  manslaughter  rather  than
murder, courts rarely make special allowances for “mercy” killings.
D is therefore incorrect.

65. B A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to bring about a criminally prohibited result, he or she performs some
act  that  comes  substantially  close  to  achieving  that  result.  Many

559

jurisdictions  hold  that  if  the  result  that  the  defendant  specifically
intended  to  bring  about  was  not  a  crime,  the  defendant  cannot  be
guilty of a criminal attempt. This is sometimes known as the doctrine
of  legal  impossibility.  Although  not  all  jurisdictions  recognize  this
defense, it is the only argument listed that could furnish the defendant
with an effective defense in any jurisdiction.

Since the elements of criminal attempt are often included among the
elements  of  the  substantive  crime  that  was  attempted,  criminal
attempts are often lesser included offenses of the substantive crimes.
Lesser  offenses  are  said  to  merge  with  the  crime  in  which  they  are
included,  which  means  that  a  person  who  is  convicted  of  a
substantive crime cannot also be convicted of attempting it. There is
no requirement that a defendant be prosecuted for the highest or most
serious crime resulting from his or her act, however. This means that
a  prosecutor  may  choose  to  charge  a  defendant  with  attempting  a
crime, even if a conviction for the substantive crime could have been
obtained.  For  this  reason,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  actually
succeeded  in  killing  a  bird  would  not  prevent  his  conviction  for
attempting to do so, and A and D are incorrect. A person is in pari
delicto with another when they are equally guilty. Since the friend did
not commit or attempt to commit a crime, he is not guilty of anything
and therefore is not in pari delicto with the defendant. C is therefore
incorrect.

66. D Voluntary manslaughter is the killing of a human being with the intent
to  kill  or  inflict  great  bodily  harm,  under  circumstances  of  extreme
emotional distress (or mistaken justification). Frequently, the rage that
accompanies a discovery of infidelity by a spouse has been held to be
sufficient  emotional  distress  to  reduce  an  intentional  homicide  from
murder  to  voluntary  manslaughter.  Most  jurisdictions  apply  an
objective  standard,  however,  in  judging  a  defendant's  emotional
distress.  Thus,  if  a  person  of  ordinary  temperament  would  not  have
lost  self-control,  the  defendant's  emotional  distress  would  not  have
been  sufficient  to  result  in  a  reduction  of  his  crime  from  murder  to
manslaughter.

A and B are incorrect because although a killing with the intent to kill
or  inflict  great  bodily  harm  may  be  murder,  extreme  emotional
distress  may  reduce  it  to  voluntary  manslaughter  even  though  the
defendant intended to kill or inflict great bodily harm. Although anger
that  results  from  the  defendant's  catching  his  spouse  in  flagrante

560

delicto (i.e., in the act) may justify reducing a murder charge to one
of manslaughter, C  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  requirement  that
defendant's 
this  particular
circumstance.

emotional  distress 

result 

from 

67. B  Evidence  obtained  in  violation  of  a  defendant's  constitutional  rights
may not be used against him or her. The United States Supreme Court
has held that Miranda  warnings  must  be  given  before  questioning  a
person  in  custody.  An  interrogation  conducted  without  giving  the
required Miranda warnings thus violates a defendant's rights, making
confessions so obtained inadmissible. The warnings are required only
when the person being questioned is in custody, however. Thus, if the
defendant was not in custody at the time his statement was made, his
rights  have  not  been  violated,  and  his  statement  should  not  be
excluded. A person is in custody when the police deprive him or her
of his or her freedom of action in any significant way. It is possible
that a court would find that the officer's pointing toward the back seat
of  the  patrol  car  was  an  order  coupled  with  an  implied  threat
sufficient  to  deprive  the  defendant  of  his  freedom,  and  that  he  was
therefore in custody. It is also possible, however, that the defendant's
entry into the police car was voluntary, and that it did not, therefore,
amount  to  custody.  Of  all  the  arguments  listed,  however,  this  is  the
only one with any possibility of success.

Even if a defendant's confession is excluded because of a failure to
give the required Miranda warnings, he or she may be convicted on
the  basis  of  other  evidence.  The  existence  of  such  independent
evidence,  although  it  may  convict  the  defendant,  does  not  make
admissible the confession that was obtained in violation of his or her
rights.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Prior  to  the  Miranda  decision,  the
Supreme Court's Escobedo decision required that a suspect be given
certain warnings as soon as he or she became the focus of a police
investigation.  C 
incorrect,  however,  because  Miranda
subsequently  changed  the  “focus”  test  to  a  “custody”  test,  requiring
that warnings be given only after the suspect was in custody. Whether
or not the investigation was routine, Miranda warnings are required
whenever  the  person  interrogated  is  in  custody.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

is 

68. D Arson is the intentional or reckless burning of the dwelling of another.
Although  the  defendant  caused  the  burning  of  the  homeowner's

561

dwelling,  he  did  not  do  so  intentionally  since  he  believed  that  there
would be no damage. (Note: Although some jurisdictions hold that a
reckless  burning  may  be  arson,  the  facts  indicate  that  the  defendant
acted reasonably.)

Although violation of a statute may be evidence of negligence or even
of  recklessness,  a  statutory  violation  is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to
satisfy the mens rea requirement for arson. A is therefore incorrect. B
is  incorrect  because  it  would  impose  criminal  liability  without  the
necessary  mens  rea.  C  is  incorrect  because  consent  by  the
homeowner  to  the  defendant's  use  of  fireworks  is  not  equivalent  to
consent to the burning of his home.

69.  B  Murder  is  a  killing  with  malice  aforethought.  Malice  aforethought
includes  wanton  disregard  for  human  life,  which  means  acting  in
deliberate  disregard  of  the  plain  and  strong  likelihood  that  death  or
great bodily harm would result. Operating a motor vehicle at a speed
of 100 miles per hour might or might not be found to constitute wanton
disregard for human life, but of the reasons listed, B is the only one
that could result in a conviction for murder.

A  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  culpable  negligence  is
insufficient to constitute malice aforethought, and second, the facts do
not indicate that the defendant was intoxicated at the time the accident
the  misdemeanor-manslaughter  rule,  a  death
occurred.  Under 
resulting from the commission of a misdemeanor might be classified
as manslaughter. Since driving without a license carries a maximum
sentence of less than one year (i.e., 30 days), it is properly classified
as  a  misdemeanor.  C  and  D  are  incorrect,  however,  because  the
misdemeanor-manslaughter  rule  cannot  lead  to  a  conviction  for
murder.

70.  C  All  jurisdictions  that  recognize  a  felony-murder  rule  apply  it  only
when  the  victim's  death  (or  the  injury  that  leads  to  it)  occurs  during
the commission of a felony. Since the stroke that caused the owner's
death did not occur until the day after the defendant robbed the store,
it did not occur during the perpetration of a felony by the defendant,
and the felony-murder rule does not apply.

A and B are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because many cases
have held that since the victim of a robbery is likely to respond with
force, even a robbery with a toy gun is a dangerous felony.

562

71.  A  “Specific  intent”  crimes  are  those  that  require  a  state  of  mind
amounting  to  a  desire  or  knowledge  by  the  defendant  that  his  or  her
conduct  will  result  in  a  consequence  that  is  criminally  proscribed.
“General intent” crimes are those for which conviction may be based
on  recklessness  or  criminal  negligence.  Voluntary  intoxication  may
provide  a  defense  to  crimes  requiring  specific  intent  since  it  may
prevent its formation. Awareness of the effect that alcohol is likely to
have  on  the  capacity  to  assess  risks,  however,  prevents  voluntary
intoxication  from  serving  as  a  defense  to  crimes  involving  general
intent.  Since  rape  may  consist  of  recklessly  having  intercourse
without the victim's consent, it is a general intent crime, and voluntary
intoxication is not a defense to it.

Involuntary  intoxication,  on  the  other  hand,  may  be  a  defense  to
crimes  involving  recklessness,  as  well  as  to  specific  intent  crimes.
The  defendant's  assertion  in  B  might  therefore  provide  her  with  an
effective defense. Since attempted robbery requires the specific intent
to  commit  a  larceny  by  force  or  threat  of  force,  the  defendant's
intoxication  in  C  may  have  prevented  her  from  having  the  intent
required and may thus provide her with an effective defense. In D, the
defendant's assertion is that he lacked the intent to deprive the rightful
owner of possession of the automobile. Since this specific intent is an
essential element of larceny, his intoxication may provide him with an
effective defense.

72.  B  Receiving  stolen  property  consists  of  the  acquisition  of  stolen
property with the knowledge that it has been stolen and with the intent
to permanently deprive its owner of it. Acquisition occurs when the
defendant takes possession of the property himself or herself, or when
he  or  she  directs  that  possession  be  delivered  to  another.  Thus,
although  the  defendant  did  not  personally  take  possession  of  the  car
that the man stole, he received it when he directed that it be delivered
to his brother.

In A, the car that the defendant received had already been recovered
by the police and was therefore not stolen at the time of the sale. In C
and D, there is no indication that the cars sold to the defendant ever
had been stolen. A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

73. B After being advised of his or her Miranda rights, a suspect in custody
cannot  be  subjected  to  police  interrogation  unless  he  or  she
voluntarily and intelligently waives those rights. If the officers were

563

unaware that the defendant could overhear their conversation, the first
officer's  comment  was  not  an  interrogation  of  the  defendant,  and  the
defendant's statement was not obtained in violation of his rights.

If  the  defendant's  statement  was  the  result  of  an  interrogation,  it
violated  his  rights  unless  he  waived 
them  voluntarily  and
intelligently.  A  is  incorrect  because  it  would  make  the  defendant's
waiver  intelligent  but  not  necessarily  voluntary  (e.g.,  he  may  have
been intimidated by the presence of police). C is incorrect because it
would  make  the  defendant's  waiver  voluntary,  but  not  necessarily
intelligent (e.g.,  he  might  not  have  understood  his  rights).  The  U.S.
Constitution  protects  the  defendant  against  custodial  interrogations,
even if the custody itself is lawful. D is therefore incorrect.

74. D Larceny is the trespassory taking and carrying off of personal property
known to be another's with the intent to permanently deprive. In this
definition,  “trespassory”  means  without  the  consent  of  the  owner.
Since  rearranging  the  merchandise  in  the  storeroom  was  part  of  the
defendant's  duties  and  therefore  done  with  the  store's  consent,  her
moving  of  the  lawnmower  was  not  trespassory.  Taking  means
acquiring  possession.  Since  the  defendant  did  not  transfer  the
lawnmower from her employer's possession to her own, she did not
take  it.  Although  any  exercise  of  dominion  accompanied  by  even  a
slight movement may constitute a “carrying off,” the defendant moved
the lawnmower as part of her duties and without any intention — at
that time — of making it her own. She therefore did not carry it off.
For a person to be guilty of larceny, the intent to permanently deprive
must  exist  at  the  time  she  took  and  carried  off  the  chattel  involved.
Although the defendant did decide to permanently deprive the store of
the  lawnmower,  she  did  not  perform  any  act  that  might  be  taking  or
carrying  off  after  making  that  decision.  For  these  reasons,  the
defendant  is  not  guilty  of  larceny.  Embezzlement  is  a  criminal
conversion  of  personal  property  by  one  in  lawful  custody  of  it.
Conversion takes place when the defendant seriously interferes with
the  rights  of  the  owner,  usually  by  exercising  dominion  or  control
the  defendant  never  did  anything
over 
inconsistent  with  the  store's  rights  in  the  lawnmower  and  never
exercised  dominion  or  control  over  it,  she  cannot  be  said  to  have
converted it. She is not therefore guilty of embezzlement.

the  chattel.  Because 

75. C In the majority of states, if a defendant made an unreasonable mistake

564

as to the need for force in self-defense, the defendant's crime can be
reduced  from  murder  to  voluntary  manslaughter  even  though  such  a
claim  does  not  completely  excuse  a  defendant's  actions.  This  is
referred to as a claim of “imperfect” self-defense. Here, the question
states  that  the  defendant  honestly  but  unreasonably  believed  that  he
needed to use deadly force to protect himself from the victim's laser
gun.  Given  the  circumstances  of  the  victim's  job,  the  defendant's
intoxication, and the particulars of the cellphone, such a belief could
be  honest  yet  unreasonable.  Importantly,  the  question  tells  you  to
assume  that  the  court  believes  the  defendant's  version  of  events,
whether or not you believe the defendant's belief to be ridiculous. A
is  incorrect  because  self-defense  requires  a  reasonable  belief  as  to
the need for force. Here, the question states that the defendant's belief
was  unreasonable.  B 
the  defendant's
unreasonable  belief  will  have  an  effect  on  his  case.  D  is  incorrect
because  depraved  heart  murder  has  to  do  with  situations  where  a
defendant  acted  with  such  great  recklessness  that  he  or  she  can  be
said to have extreme indifference to the value of human life. In these
situations,  the  defendant  is  not  necessarily  intending  to  kill  anyone,
but is acting in such a way as to make someone's death likely.

incorrect  because 

is 

76.  B  When  the  words  deliberate  and  premeditated  appear  in  a  murder
statute, deliberate means that the defendant was possessed of a cool
mind  capable  of  reflection,  and  premeditated  means  that  the
defendant actually did reflect on his or her act before committing it.
Since  the  psychiatrist's  testimony  indicates  that  the  defendant  may
have been incapable of cool reflection at the time of his act, it may be
admitted for the purpose of showing that the killing was not deliberate
and premeditated.

A is incorrect because under the M'Naghten test, a defendant is insane
only  if  mental  disease  made  him  or  her  incapable  of  knowing  the
nature  and  quality  of  his  or  her  act,  or  that  it  was  wrong.  C  is
incorrect because the testimony may be admitted to establish lack of
deliberation and premeditation, even though it does not establish that
the defendant was insane. An intentional killing may be reduced from
murder  to  voluntary  manslaughter  if  the  defendant  was  acting  in  the
heat  of  passion  caused  by  sufficient  provocation.  For  this  purpose,
the provocation and defendant's response to it are usually judged by
an objective standard. D is incorrect, however, because, as explained
above, psychiatric evidence of the defendant's state of mind may be

565

relevant to the elements of deliberation and premeditation.

77. D  If  the  only  evidence  against  the  defendant  was  excluded  because  it
was obtained by coercing his confession, his motion to dismiss might
be  granted.  But  although  a  coerced  confession  cannot  be  used  in  a
criminal  prosecution  against  the  person  who  made  it,  evidence  that
was  obtained  independently  of  the  coerced  confession  can  be  used.
Since the federal officer obtained evidence of the defendant's identity
without  knowledge  of  the  defendant's  statement,  the  defendant's
motion must be denied.

A and B are therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because if the federal
officer's  discovery  of  the  evidence  against  the  defendant  resulted
from  a  violation  of  the  defendant's  constitutional  rights,  it  might  be
excluded in spite of the fact that the federal officer was employed by
the federal government and the state police officer by the state.

78. D  A  conspiracy  is  an  agreement  to  commit  a  crime.  Conspirators  are
vicariously  liable  for  crimes  committed  in  furtherance  of  the
conspiratorial  goal  by  other  members  of  the  conspiracy.  This  is  so
even if those crimes were unforeseeable, not included in the original
plan, or unnecessary to the success of the conspiracy, so long as they
were  committed  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiratorial  goal.  Since  the
roommate  transported  the  car  across  a  state  line  for  the  purpose  of
aiding  their  escape,  it  was  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiratorial  goal.
A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

79. B A statement made in response to a custodial interrogation of a suspect
is admissible against him or her only if, after being advised of his or
her  Miranda  rights,  he  or  she  makes  a  voluntary  and  intelligent
waiver.  Since  the  defendant  concedes  that  her  statements  were
voluntary,  the  only  remaining  issue  is  whether  she  had  sufficient
knowledge  and  understanding  of  her  rights  to  intelligently  waive
them.  The  same  issue  was  resolved  in  B,  in  which  the  defendant's
response to the officer's question made it doubtful that the defendant
understood his constitutional rights.

In A, since the defendant was not in custody at the time he answered
the  officer's  questions  (and  since  the  question  was  probably  not  an
“interrogation”), the issue of waiver did not arise. Although a person
who has been formally charged with a crime is entitled to counsel at
a  lineup,  C  is  not  applicable  since  the  defendant  had  not  been

566

formally  charged  with  any  crime,  and  since,  therefore,  she  was  not
entitled to counsel, no issue of waiver arose in her case. The Fourth
Amendment  protects  against  warrantless  search,  but  this  protection
may be waived by a person who voluntarily and intelligently consents
to such a search. Waiver was, therefore, an issue in D. Although the
officer's  statement  might  not  have  been  sufficient  to  make  the
defendant's  waiver  intelligent,  the  circumstances  —  an  unexpected,
middle-of-the-night  visit  by  three  uniformed  police  officers  —  also
raise  serious  doubts  about  its  voluntariness.  For  this  reason,  B  (in
which  the  only  issue  was  the  knowledge  and  understanding  of  the
waiver)  is  more  applicable  as  a  precedent.  [Note:  Case-summary
analysis  questions  are  usually  as  uncertain  as  this  one.  Fortunately,
they are no longer common on the MBE.]

80.  B  The  crime  of  receiving  stolen  property  is  committed  when  the
defendant receives stolen property with the knowledge that it is stolen
and with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of it. Since the
car  that  the  defendant  purchased  was  in  the  lawful  custody  of  the
police, it could be argued that it was no longer stolen. Although it is
not certain that this argument would succeed, it is the only one listed
that  could  possibly  be  effective  in  the  defendant's  defense.  B  is
therefore correct.

Since the police are supposed to prevent crime rather than instigate it,
many  jurisdictions  hold  that  a  defendant  who  was  induced  by  the
police or an agent of the police to commit a crime that he or she was
not  otherwise  disposed  to  commit  is  entrapped  and  has  a  valid
affirmative  defense  to  the  crime  charged.  A  is  incorrect,  however,
because  the  defendant  came  looking  for  a  stolen  car  and  was
therefore  already  disposed  to  commit  the  crime  with  which  he  was
charged. Ordinarily, a defense may not be based on the assertion of
another's  rights.  If  the  man's  cooperation  was  coerced,  the  man's
rights may have been violated. C is incorrect, however, because the
defendant  may  not  base  his  defense  on  the  invasion  of  the  man's
rights.  D  is  incorrect  because  no  right  of  the  defendant's  was
bargained away.

81. C If a warrantless search violates a reasonable expectation of privacy
held  by  the  person  whose  property  is  searched,  it  violates  that
person's  Fourth  Amendment  rights.  Since  each  person  who  shares
property with another knows that the other has access to it, neither of

567

them  has  a  reasonable  expectation  that  the  property  will  remain
private. For this reason, a search is generally valid if authorized by
one of the persons who share the property that is searched. Since the
girlfriend shared the apartment, the bedroom, and the closet with the
defendant,  the  defendant  could  have  no  reasonable  expectation  that
these areas would remain private, and the girlfriend's consent to the
search made it valid.

Although a search warrant may not be issued without probable cause,
probable  cause  does  not  justify  a  search  without  a  warrant.  A  is
therefore  incorrect.  If  police  discover  contraband  during  hot  pursuit
of  a  suspect,  they  may  be  permitted  to  seize  it  without  a  warrant  if
necessary to prevent disposal or destruction. B is incorrect, however,
because the police were not in hot pursuit of the defendant when they
discovered the marijuana. The seizure of contraband “in plain view”
might be valid because its discovery was not the result of a search. D
is incorrect, however, because the police officers had already begun
their  search  (i.e.,  by  having  the  girlfriend  open  the  closet  door  for
them to look inside it) when the marijuana fell into view.

82. D The Double Jeopardy Clause provides that no person shall be placed
twice  in  jeopardy  for  the  same  offense.  It  is  generally  understood,
however,  that  jeopardy  does  not  begin  until  the  commencement  of  a
trial,  which  occurs  when  a  jury  is  impaneled.  Since  a  grand  jury
proceeding is not “jeopardy,” there is no constitutional reason why a
matter should not be brought before a grand jury several times.

A and B are therefore incorrect. In addition, A is incorrect because
the  term  res  judicata  is  applied  only  to  a  final  determination  by  a
court.  C  is  incorrect  because  jeopardy  has  not  yet  begun,  so  the
motion must be denied, whether or not the first grand jury's decision
was motivated by prejudice.

83.  D  Murder  is  the  unjustified  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  means  a  wanton  disregard  for
human  life,  or  an  intent  to  kill,  inflict  great  bodily  harm,  commit  a
felony, or resist a lawful arrest. Since it is clear that the defendant did
not  intend  to  commit  a  felony,  to  resist  a  lawful  arrest,  or  to  strike
anyone with the bullet, she can be found guilty of murder only if her
conduct  showed  a  wanton  disregard  for  human  life.  Thus,  if  she  is
acquitted, it can only be because the court found that her conduct did
not show a wanton disregard.

568

A  is  incorrect  because  malice  aforethought  may  exist  without  an
intent to kill. Since any result may have many proximate causes, the
fact that the ambulance driver's conduct was a proximate cause of the
victim's death does not establish that the defendant's conduct was not
also  a  proximate  cause  of  that  death.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  The
privilege to abate a nuisance permits the use of reasonable force only.
Although  the  conduct  of  the  defendant's  neighbors  may  have
constituted a nuisance, it is obvious that the use of a deadly weapon
was not a reasonable response to it. C is therefore incorrect.

84. C A person is privileged to use reasonable force to protect himself or
herself  from  what  he  or  she  reasonably  believes  to  be  a  threat  of
imminent  bodily  harm.  Potentially  lethal  force  is  reasonable  when
used in response to what the defendant reasonably perceives to be a
threat  of  potentially  lethal  force.  Thus,  if  the  defendant  reasonably
believed  that  the  victim  was  reaching  for  a  gun,  her  use  of  a  gun  in
response may have been reasonable and therefore privileged. While it
is not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, the argument
in C is the only one listed that could possibly provide the defendant
with an effective defense.

A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the intent to bring
about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  comes  substantially
close to achieving it. A is incorrect because the fact that a death did
not  actually  occur  will  not  prevent  a  conviction  for  attempting  to
cause one. If the defendant had the intent to kill the victim when she
aimed  her  pistol  at  the  victim's  chest,  she  would  be  guilty  of
attempted  murder  if  she  came  subsequently  close  to  causing  the
victim's death. This might be so even if she did not strike the victim
in  the  chest,  or  even  if  she  did  not  strike  the  victim  at  all.  For  this
reason, B is incorrect. D  is  incorrect  because  deadly  force  is  force
that  is  likely  to  result  in  death  or  great  bodily  harm.  The  use  of  a
pistol  thus  constitutes  deadly  force  even  though  the  harm  that  it
actually causes happens to be slight.

85.  D  Murder  is  the  unjustified  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought. In addition to reckless disregard for human life, and the
intent to kill, to cause great bodily harm, or to resist a lawful arrest,
malice aforethought includes the intent to commit a dangerous felony.
Since arson is a dangerous felony, D is correct.

A is incorrect because malice aforethought may exist even though the

569

defendants did not intend to kill. Some jurisdictions have held that the
felony murder rule cannot be applied unless the deaths were totally
independent of the defendants' purpose in committing a felony. B is a
misstatement  of  this  rule  and  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because  unreasonable  conduct  is  not  sufficient  to  constitute  malice
aforethought.

86.  B  Kidnapping  consists  of  intentionally  transporting  and  confining  a
person against that person's will by force or threat and without legal
authority.  The  essential  difference  between  kidnapping  and  criminal
false  imprisonment  is  the  requirement  of  asportation:  Unless  the
defendant has moved the victim to the place of confinement, there is
no kidnapping. Since the defendant forced the hostage to accompany
him to his car, where he confined her for a period of 15 minutes, he
has kidnapped her. Because he did not move any of the other victims
to the place of their confinement, he did not kidnap them.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

87. A A defendant is guilty of criminally receiving stolen property when he
or  she  acquires  stolen  personal  property  with  knowledge  that  it  is
stolen and with the intent to permanently deprive its owner. Since the
car  that  the  defendant  purchased  from  the  other  officer  had  been
requisitioned from the police department, it was not stolen property.
Since  the  defendant  never  received  stolen  property,  he  cannot  be
guilty of this crime.

B  is  incorrect  because  guilt  does  not  require  that  the  defendant  pay
for stolen property with his own money (or that he pay for it at all).
Police officers are supposed to prevent crime, not to cause it. For this
reason, many jurisdictions hold that a defendant who was entrapped
(i.e., induced by a police officer to commit a crime that he or she was
not otherwise inclined to commit), cannot be convicted of committing
it.  The  officers  did  not  entrap  the  defendant  because  the  defendant
indicated his inclination to purchase a stolen car before either officer
suggested that he do so. C is therefore incorrect. A search or arrest
warrant may not be issued without a showing of probable cause, but
no  such  showing  is  required  before  beginning  an  investigation.  For
this reason, D is incorrect.

88.  B  Arson  is  the  intentional  or  malicious  burning  of  the  dwelling  of
another.  Since  even  the  slightest  charring  of  the  walls  or  ceiling  is

570

regarded  as  a  burning,  there  was  a  burning  of  the  boyfriend's
dwelling.  Since  malice  includes  recklessness,  and  since  it  was
clearly reckless to set fire to a couch while it was inside the house,
the  necessary  state  of  mind  is  present.  The  defendant  is  therefore
guilty of arson.

Burglary is the trespassory breaking and entering of the dwelling of
another  at  night  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  larceny  or  any  felony
therein. The defendant entered the boyfriend's dwelling at night. The
unauthorized opening of a closed door can constitute a breaking, and
any  unauthorized  entry  is  trespassory.  Although  the  defendant  did
commit a felony inside (i.e., arson), she cannot be guilty of burglary
unless she intended to do so when she entered. Since at the time the
defendant  entered  the  boyfriend's  house,  she  meant  only  to  retrieve
her  own  property,  she  did  not  have  the  requisite  intent  to  make  her
guilty  of  burglary.  A  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect
because the defendant is guilty of arson as explained above.

89.  D  Because  of  the  inherently  coercive  nature  of  police  custody,  the
United  States  Supreme  Court  held  (in  Miranda)  that  inculpatory
statements  resulting  from  custodial  interrogation  of  a  defendant  are
inadmissible unless the defendant received certain warnings prior to
making the statements. Among the required warnings is a caution that
anything  that  the  defendant  says  may  be  used  against  him  or  her.
Because the informant was working for the police, it is possible that
his  conversation  with 
to  a  police
interrogation.  Thus,  if  the  defendant  was  in  custody  at  the  time,  his
statement  might  be  inadmissible  because  he  had  not  received
Miranda  warnings.  The  Miranda  rule  applies  only  to  custodial
interrogations, however. So, since the defendant was not in custody at
the time of his conversation with the informant, the lack of Miranda
warnings would not make his statement to the informant inadmissible.

the  defendant  amounted 

A is incorrect because even though the informant might have been an
agent of the police at the time he and the defendant shared a cell (i.e.,
while  the  defendant  was  clearly  in  custody),  the  statements  in
question were not made at that time. B is incorrect because Miranda
warnings are required for custodial interrogations only. The issue to
be determined is whether the conversation between the informant and
the defendant was a custodial interrogation and therefore a violation
of the defendant's rights. C  assumes  that  the  defendant's  rights  were

571

violated and uses that assumption to prove that the defendant's rights
were violated. This is circular reasoning and is therefore incorrect.

90. C Under the “irresistible impulse” test, a person is not guilty by reason
of insanity if mental disease made him or her incapable of controlling
his or her conduct at the time of the alleged criminal act. Although not
all  jurisdictions  accept  this  definition  of  insanity,  under  the  facts
given, C is the only argument listed that would serve as an effective
defense in any jurisdiction.

The M'Naghten rule provides that a person is not guilty by reason of
insanity  if,  at  the  time  of  the  allegedly  criminal  act,  mental  disease
prevented him or her from knowing either the nature and quality of his
or her act or that it was wrong. A defendant is said to know that his or
her act is “wrong,” however, if he or she is aware that it is prohibited
by law. Since the defendant knew that if he was caught, he would be
imprisoned  for  murder,  he  had  sufficient  understanding  that  his  act
was wrong to make him sane under this rule. A is therefore incorrect.
The  concept  of  “intent”  relates  to  the  defendant's  state  of  mind
regarding  the  immediate  consequences  of  his  or  her  act,  quite  apart
from the concept of “motive,” which refers to a defendant's purpose
in bringing that consequence about. Since the defendant desired to kill
the victim, he had the necessary intent to make him guilty of murder,
in spite of his noble motive (i.e., to save the world). B is therefore
incorrect. A person who, by reason of mental illness, is incapable of
understanding the nature and quality of his or her act is insane under
the M'Naghten rule discussed above. The phrase nature and quality
of the act, however, refers to the physical character of the act and to
its  physical  consequences.  Since  the  defendant  understood  that  he
was  pushing  the  victim  down  the  stairs  and  that  this  could  result  in
her  death,  he  did  understand  the  nature  and  quality  of  his  act.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

91.  A  The  Fourth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  protects
against  unreasonable  search  and  seizure.  Ordinarily,  a  warrantless
search is regarded as unreasonable and therefore unlawful under this
clause.  This  constitutional  provision  applies  only  to  searches
conducted by the police or by other government officials,  however.
For this reason, the fact that the administrator was not a government
employee  —  and  was  not  working  in  conjunction  with  any
government  employee  —  would  make  the  Fourth  Amendment

572

protection absolutely inapplicable here.

As to B, there is some Supreme Court support for the proposition that
a  student's  consent  to  an  administrative  search  may  sometimes  be
implied  from 
the  special  relationship  between  students  and
administrators.  But  that  consent  would  be  unlikely  to  extend  to
something as intrusive as a body search (which is what occurred here
when  the  administrator  reached  into  the  defendant's  pocket)  on  only
the weak hearsay evidence that was present here. And, in any event,
this  explanation  is  not  as  good  as  A,  which  resolves  the  issue
automatically. Therefore, B is wrong. Similarly, C's “special concern
for  the  well-being  of  young  people”  rationale  might  support  certain
types  of  searches,  but  it  wouldn't  support  a  body  search  with  the
much-less-than-probable-cause,  hearsay-type  evidence  here.  D  is
incorrect  for  three  reasons:  First,  an  anonymous  note  does  not
ordinarily  give  anyone  probable  cause  to  believe  its  contents,
especially  where  the  note  is  itself  based  on  hearsay;  second,
probable cause does not justify a warrantless search by a government
official; and third, the administrator's search of the defendant did not
violate  his  Fourth  Amendment  rights  even  if  she  did  not  have
probable cause because, as explained in A, the defendant was not a
government actor.

92. B A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to  bring  about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  comes
substantially  close  to  bringing  about  that  result.  Thus,  while  certain
crimes  may  be  committed  without 
the  prohibited
consequences, criminal attempt always requires the specific intent to
bring  about  the  prohibited  result.  Although  the  employee  could  be
convicted of violating the statute if he actually sold ammunition to the
teenager, he could not be convicted of attempting to violate the statute
unless he knew that the teenager was under the age of 16 and intended
to sell her the ammunition.

intending 

For  obvious  practical  reasons,  there  is  usually  an  irrebuttable
presumption  that  all  persons  know  the  law.  Ignorance  of  the  law,
therefore,  would  not  provide  the  employee  with  a  defense.  A  is
therefore incorrect. The fact that the owner is vicariously liable under
the  statute  would  not  furnish  the  employee  with  a  defense  since  the
statute  imposes  liability  on  both  employee  and  employer.  C  is
incorrect  for  this  reason,  and  because  the  statute  imposes  vicarious

573

liability on the employer only if the employee actually makes a sale,
which  the  employee  did  not  do.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  statute
does not make knowledge or experience an element of guilt.

93. B At common law, murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with
malice  aforethought.  One  state  of  mind  that  constitutes  malice
aforethought  is  the  intent  to  kill  a  human  being.  Since  knowledge  of
the victim's identity is not an essential element of murder, the fact that
the defendant was mistaken about the identity of the person at whom
he was shooting does not prevent him from having the necessary state
of  mind  (i.e.,  intent  to  kill).  For  this  reason,  the  defendant  may  be
convicted  even  without  application  of  the  doctrine  of  transferred
intent.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  defendant
unlawfully killed the victim with the intent to kill a human being and
is therefore guilty of murder. Although a wanton disregard for human
life  may  constitute  malice  aforethought,  mere  negligence  does  not.
Since  the  creation  of  an  unreasonable  risk  is  merely  negligent,  this
fact is not sufficient to justify a finding that the defendant had malice
aforethought,  which  is  necessary  to  a  conviction  for  murder.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

94. C  The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  provides,  in
part, that “no person shall . . . be subject for the same offense to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.” This prevents a defendant from
being  charged  twice  with  the  same  crime.  The  charge  against  the
defendant in the state court involves the violation of a statute that is
different  from  the  one  that  she  was  convicted  of  violating  in  the
federal court, however. The state prosecution is thus not for the same
offense. For this reason, the double jeopardy clause does not require
its  dismissal  even  though  the  same  evidence  will  be  used  in  both
prosecutions.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  criminal  conspiracy  consists  of  an
agreement  between  two  or  more  persons  to  commit  a  crime  and  is
complete when the agreement is made. It is a crime separate from the
substantive crime that the conspirators agreed to commit and does not
merge with that substantive crime. B is incorrect for this reason, and
because  prosecutions  for  violating  state  and  federal  statutes  are  not
for  the  same  offense,  even  though  based  on  a  single  act  by  the
defendant. D  contains  an  incorrect  statement  since  violations  of  the

574

statutes of different sovereigns constitute different offenses; therefore,
separate prosecutions are not barred by the double jeopardy clause.

95.  D  Criminal  battery  consists  of  the  intentional,  reckless,  or  criminally
negligent application of force to the body of another. Since it is thus a
general intent crime, it may be committed without the intent to make
contact with the victim. While voluntary intoxication is no defense to
a general intent crime, involuntary intoxication ordinarily is. A person
has become involuntarily intoxicated when his or her intoxication was
the  result  of  an  unpredictable  and  grossly  excessive  reaction  to  an
intoxicating  substance.  Thus,  if  the  defendant  had  never  before  been
overcome by the alcohol in one drink, it may be that his intoxication
was  involuntary  and  that  it  will  provide  him  with  a  defense  to  the
charge of criminal battery. It is not certain that this defense would be
successful,  since  a  court  might  find  that  although  the  response  was
unpredictable,  it  was  not  grossly  excessive.  The  fact  set  forth  in  D,
however,  is  the  only  one  listed  that  might  possibly  provide  the
defendant with an effective defense.

A  person  may  become  “voluntarily”  intoxicated  even  without  the
intent  to  become  drunk  so  long  as  he  or  she  is  aware  that  the
substance that he or she is taking has an intoxicating potential. Since
the  defendant  was  aware  that  the  drink  had  some  alcohol  in  it,  his
intoxication  may  be  called  voluntary  even  if  he  did  not  intend  to
become drunk. A is therefore incorrect. If the defendant's conduct in
drinking the drink was reckless or criminally negligent, he could have
the  necessary  mens rea  to  be  guilty  of  battery  (i.e.,  general  intent),
even though he did not specifically know what risk he was creating
(i.e., that he would fall off the bar stool). B is therefore incorrect. C
is incorrect because battery is a general intent crime, and therefore it
does not require the intent to make contact with another human being.

96.  A  A  person  is  privileged  by  self-defense  to  use  reasonable  force  to
protect  himself  or  herself  against  what  reasonably  appears  to  be  an
imminent threat of bodily harm. In this connection, reasonable force is
the force that would appear necessary to the reasonable person. Even
deadly force is reasonable if the person using it reasonably believes
that he or she is being threatened with deadly force. Thus, since the
defendant  reasonably  believed  that  his  life  was  in  danger,  the  force
that  he  used  in  self-defense  was  probably  reasonable,  making  the
defendant not guilty of attempted murder.

575

Although  deadly  force  is  not  ordinarily  considered  reasonable  in
defense of mere property, B is incorrect because the defendant's shot
was probably fired in response to a threat against his person and may
have  been  justified  by  self-defense.  Although  the  intent  to  kill  or
inflict serious injury can be inferred from the fact that the defendant
fired at the officer, C is incorrect because, if reasonable, his conduct
was  privileged  by  self-defense.  Since  the  defendant  had  no  way  of
knowing  that  the  person  threatening  him  was  a  police  officer,  the
officer's status as such can have no bearing on the reasonableness of
the defendant's actions. D is therefore incorrect.

97. C One who intentionally aids, abets, or facilitates the commission of a
crime  is  criminally  responsible  for  the  crime  as  an  accomplice.  In
addition,  an  accomplice  is  criminally  responsible  for  all  the
foreseeable consequences of the crime that he or she facilitated. Since
the  use  of  the  defendant's  apartment  to  escape  detection  was  part  of
the  bank  robber's  plan  in  preparing  for  the  robbery,  the  defendant's
agreement to permit the bank robber to use it facilitated the robbery,
making the defendant an accomplice to it. As such, the defendant may
be guilty of felony murder in the death that resulted from the robbery,
but only if it was foreseeable that such a death would occur.

One  who  becomes  an  accessory  after  a  crime  has  been  committed
(i.e., accessory after the fact) by knowingly harboring the person who
committed it is not criminally responsible for prior acts committed by
the  person  harbored.  A  person  who  facilitates  the  commission  of  a
crime  by  agreeing  in  advance  that  he  or  she  will  harbor  the
perpetrator  after  the  crime  is  committed  is  guilty  as  an  accomplice
(i.e.,  accessory  before  the  fact),  however.  As  such,  he  or  she  is
criminally responsible for all foreseeable consequences of the crime
to which he or she was an accomplice. A is therefore incorrect. Since
an accomplice is criminally responsible for those consequences that
were  foreseeable,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  did  not  actually  know
that  the  bank  robber  would  use  a  gun  does  not  protect  him  from
liability  if  the  bank  robber's  use  of  a  gun  was  foreseeable.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  A  conspirator  is  criminally  responsible  for  all
crimes committed by co-conspirators in furtherance of the subject of
the  conspiracy.  D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  an  accessory  is
criminally responsible only for consequences that were foreseeable.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

98. C  The  United  States  Constitution  protects  criminal  defendants  against

576

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

unreasonable search and seizure. To give this protection meaning, the
courts  exclude  evidence  obtained  as  the  result  of  an  unreasonable
search.  Not  every  observation  or  inspection  by  police  officers  is
properly classified as a search, however. In general, it is understood
that a search occurs only when the police inspect a place in which the
defendant  has  a  reasonable  expectation  of  privacy.  If  the  field  was
such a place, the overflight and subsequent visit by police constituted
searches,  and,  since  they  were  performed  without  a  warrant,  the
evidence  obtained  as  a  result  of  those  searches  should  be  excluded.
On the other hand, if the field was not a place in which the defendant
had a reasonable expectation of privacy, the overflight and visit were
not searches and the evidence should not be excluded.

A is incorrect because if the defendant had no reasonable expectation
of  privacy,  the  use  of  special  equipment  to  photograph  what  the
police  observed  would  not  be  a  search.  The  United  States
Constitution  provides  that  a  warrant  may  be  issued  only  upon  a
showing  of  probable  cause.  For  this  reason,  a  warrant  obtained
solely on the basis of information received from an informant may be
invalid  unless  the  reliability  of  the  informant  can  be  properly
established. B is incorrect, however, because the warrant in this case
might  have  been  issued  on  the  basis  of  the  police  officers'
observations.  The  constitutional  protection  against  unreasonable
search and seizure prevents the use of evidence obtained directly or
indirectly  as  a  result  of  an  improper  search  (i.e.,  “fruit  of  the
poisonous  tree”).  Thus,  if  the  warrant  was  issued  as  the  result  of
observations  that  the  officers  made  in  violation  of  the  defendant's
constitutional  rights,  the  evidence  will  be  excluded  even  though  it
was  discovered  after  the  warrant  was  issued.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

99. D A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to bring about a result that is criminally prohibited, he or she comes
substantially  close  to  accomplishing  that  result.  Since  the  defendant
believed  that  the  time  was  five  minutes  past  eleven,  and  since  it
would have been lawful to sell liquor at that time, he did not have the
specific intent to bring about a result that was criminally prohibited.
For  this  reason,  he  could  not  be  guilty  of  attempting  to  violate  the
statute.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  Attempt  always  requires  specific

577

intent,  even  where  the  substantive  crime  does  not.  Thus,  even  if  the
statute  did  not  require  specific  intent,  the  defendant  could  not  be
guilty of attempting to violate it without specifically intending to sell
liquor after midnight. C is therefore incorrect.

100.  A  At  common  law,  larceny  is  defined  as  a  trespassory  taking  and
carrying off of personal property known to be another's with the intent
to  permanently  deprive  the  owner  thereof.  A  person  who  is
reclaiming his or her own property is not committing larceny since he
or she is not carrying off the property of another. Thus, the defendant's
taking of $50 to pay himself back for the money that the victim owed
him was not a larceny. Except in the case of fungible goods, however,
this rule does not protect a defendant who takes something that is not
his or her own, even though it is equivalent in value to the property
that  he  or  she  seeks  to  reclaim.  Thus,  the  defendant's  taking  of  $50
cash to pay himself for the watch that the victim refused to return is a
larceny.

Since  the  statute  provides  that  a  larceny  of  $50  or  less  is  a
misdemeanor, A is correct, and B, C, and D are incorrect.

101.  A  A  person  has  to  be  the  “cause-in-fact”  of  a  death  in  order  to  be
convicted  for  it.  The  mistress  is  not  a  “but-for”  cause-in-fact  of  the
wife's death since the wife would have died anyway from the poison.
However, a person can meet the cause-in-fact requirement if he or she
is  a  “substantial  factor”  in  causing  the  death.  Here,  the  mistress's
actions significantly sped up the death, so she was a substantial factor
in causing the death. Consequently, she would fulfill the cause-in-fact
requirement and could be found guilty of the murder. Therefore, C and
D are incorrect. B is irrelevant because the fact the mistress was in
the house unlawfully does not change the analysis.

102.  C  A  criminal  conspiracy  is  an  agreement  to  commit  a  crime  and  is
complete when the agreement is made. Since the defendant agreed to
commit a robbery with the two other men, he is guilty of conspiracy.
A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to  bring  about  a  result  that  is  criminally  prohibited,  he  comes
substantially  close  to  bringing  about  that  result.  Since  the  two  other
men  intended  to  rob  the  bank  and  came  substantially  close  to  doing
so,  they  are  guilty  of  attempted  robbery.  Co-conspirators  are
vicariously  liable  for  crimes  committed  in  furtherance  of  the
agreement. Since the attempted robbery was committed in furtherance

578

of  the  agreement  between  the  defendant  and  the  two  other  men,  the
defendant is criminally liable for the attempt even though he did not
physically participate in it.

103. B A warrant authorizing the search of persons must clearly identify the
particular  persons  to  be  searched,  although  it  is  not  necessary  that
they be identified by name. This warrant identified them in terms of a
fact  that  could  not  be  determined  until  they  had  been  searched,
however (i.e., “all persons . . . who are found to be in possession of
unlawful  gambling  records”).  It  therefore  lacked  the  required
particularity. If there was probable cause to arrest a person, a search
performed incident to that arrest would be valid. While it is uncertain
whether a court would find that there was probable cause to arrest the
defendant, B is the only answer listed that could possibly be correct.

Probable  cause  means  that  facts  are  known  that  would  lead  the
reasonable person to believe that a crime was being committed. If the
reasonable person would believe that gambling activities were being
conducted  in  the  tavern,  he  or  she  would  certainly  be  justified  in
believing that some of the people present were engaging in them. A is
therefore  incorrect.  Although  a  warrant  that  authorizes  the  search  of
premises  may  also  authorize  the  search  of  persons  present  on  said
premises,  C  is  incorrect  because  this  warrant  does  not  identify  the
people  to  be  searched  with  sufficient  particularity.  D  is  incorrect
because  if  corroboration  is  required,  it  must  exist  prior  to  the
issuance of the warrant, not after its execution.

104. D Some courts say that statutory rape is a strict liability crime, requiring
no  intent  at  all;  other  courts  say  that  it  is  a  general  intent  crime
requiring  only  the  intent  to  have  sexual  intercourse.  Under  either
view, this means that a defendant who has sexual intercourse with a
female who is too young to consent is guilty if he was aware that he
was engaging in intercourse. This is so even though he did not know
that she was underage, even though the reasonable person would not
have known it, and even though she told him that she was over the age
of consent.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

105.  D  Under  the  state's  definition,  conspiracy  requires  an  agreement  to
commit a crime with the specific intent to commit a crime. If the act
that the first boy and the girl agreed to commit was not a crime, the

579

first boy lacked the specific intent required. Since neither the common
law  nor  the  statute  prohibits  sexual  intercourse  between  persons  of
the second boy's and the girl's ages, intercourse between them would
not have been a crime, and therefore the agreement between the first
boy and the girl was not a conspiracy.

For  certain  crimes,  Wharton's  Rule  provides  that  there  can  be  no
conviction  for  conspiracy  unless  one  of  the  parties  to  the  agreement
was  not  logically  essential  to  the  commission  of  the  act  that  they
agreed to commit. A is incorrect, however, because although the girl's
participation was essential to the seduction of the second boy, the first
boy's  participation  was  not.  In  addition,  Wharton's  Rule  does  not
apply  to  statutory  rape.  Conspiracy  is  a  separate  crime  and  is
committed  when  the  conspiratorial  agreement  is  made.  Some
jurisdictions  also  require  that  there  have  been  an  overt  act  in
furtherance of the conspiracy. B is incorrect, however, because such
an act need only be committed by one of the co-conspirators, and the
girl's  acts  would  suffice.  Since  the  crime  is  committed  when  the
agreement  is  made,  the  fact  that  the  act  that  the  parties  agreed  to
commit never actually took place is not a defense. C is thus incorrect.

106.  D  A  lesser  included  offense  is  an  offense  the  elements  of  which  are
completely  included  among  the  elements  of  a  more  serious  crime.
Attempting  to  commit  a  crime  is  always  a  lesser  included  offense
since  its  elements  are  always  included  among  the  elements  of  the
completed  crime.  One  who  commits  a  crime  is  guilty  of  all  lesser
included offenses. Since the defendant offered to commit bribery, he
is  guilty  of  bribery  in  the  second  degree,  and  since  the  attempt  is
included in the completed crime, he is guilty of attempting to commit
bribery in the second degree.

A  person  is  guilty  of  attempting  to  commit  a  crime  when,  with  the
specific  intent  to  commit  that  crime,  he  or  she  comes  substantially
close to committing it. A  is  incorrect  because  bribery  in  the  second
degree is not an “attempt” crime. It is statutorily defined as offering to
commit  bribery  and  is  committed  when  the  offer  is  made.  B  is
incorrect because although the clerk first offered to accept the money,
the  defendant's  subsequent  agreement  was  also  an  offer  to  pay  the
money.  In  addition,  the  defendant's  trip  to  the  clerk's  office  the
following day was for the purpose of offering to pay the money. C is
based  on  a  misinterpretation  of  the  law.  A  lesser  included  crime  is

580

said to “merge” with the more serious one, but this means only that a
defendant cannot be convicted of both. There is no reason why he or
she cannot be convicted of the lesser one only.

107. C A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to bring about a prohibited result, he or she comes substantially close
to  doing  so.  Thus,  all  attempts  are  “specific  intent”  crimes.  This
means that although murder does not require a specific intent to cause
the death of a person, attempted murder does. Since the defendant did
not  intend  to  cause  the  death  of  a  human  being,  she  lacks  the  intent
required to make her guilty of attempted murder.

A is therefore incorrect. The death of the friend does not satisfy the
specific  intent  requirement  unless  the  defendant  intended  to  bring  it
about.  For  this  reason,  B  is  also  incorrect.  Although  the  attempt  to
murder a person may merge with the actual murder of the person, D is
incorrect  because  the  coworker  did  not  die  and  so  could  not  have
been murdered.

108. A  A  criminal  suspect  may  not  be  interrogated  in  the  absence  of  his  or
her attorney once formal charges have been brought. It has been held
that  placing  a  secret  police  agent  to  elicit  incriminating  statements
violates this rule, even though the officer asks no questions.

B  is  incorrect  because  “entrapment”  refers  only  to  conduct  by  a
police officer that induced the defendant to commit a crime that he or
she  was  not  otherwise  inclined  to  commit.  C  is  incorrect  because  a
warrant  does  not  justify  a  police  interrogation  in  violation  of  the
above rule. D is incorrect because even a voluntary statement violates
the above rule if made as a result of a police interrogation conducted
without the presence or consent of the defendant's attorney.

109.  A  Murder  is  the  unjustified  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  includes  the  intent  to  kill,  which
means  the  desire  or  knowledge  that  the  defendant's  act  will  bring
about the death of another person. Since the other boy threw away the
victim's medicine with the desire that doing so would bring about the
death of the victim, and since the victim died as a result, the victim
was  murdered.  A  criminal  conspiracy  is  an  agreement  to  commit  a
crime.  Since  the  two  boys  agreed  to  kill  the  victim,  they  were
involved  in  a  criminal  conspiracy.  Co-conspirators  are  vicariously
liable  for  any  crimes  committed  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy.

581

Since  the  murder  of  the  victim  was  committed  by  the  other  boy  in
furtherance of his agreement with the boy who ran away, the boy who
ran away is vicariously liable for it. A is therefore correct.

Since the boy who ran away did no physical act that enabled the other
boy  to  bring  about  the  victim's  death,  he  did  not  aid  or  abet  him  in
bringing it about. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because the
principle  of  vicarious  liability  as  explained  above  makes  it
unnecessary for the boy who ran away to physically participate in the
commission  of  the  crime  with  which  he  is  charged.  One  who
effectively  withdraws  from  a  conspiracy  before 
is
accomplished  may  avoid  vicarious  guilt  for  the  substantive  crime,
although  not  for  the  crime  of  conspiracy.  For  a  withdrawal  to  be
effective,  however,  the  withdrawing  conspirator  must  at  least  do
something that places his or her co-conspirator on notice of his or her
withdrawal.  Since  the  boy  who  ran  away  did  not  do  so,  he  has  not
effectively withdrawn from the conspiracy, and D is incorrect.

its  goal 

110. A The felony-murder rule provides that the intent to commit a felony is
malice aforethought, and that a death that results from the perpetration
of a felony is therefore murder. For this purpose, the perpetration of a
felony continues during the defendant's attempt to escape to a place of
seeming  safety.  The  pedestrian's  death  thus  occurred  during  the
perpetration  of  a  robbery,  and  the  defendant  could  be  convicted  of
murder even if he was driving carefully at the time it occurred.

B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

111. D  In  the  absence  of  special  circumstances,  no  person  is  under  a  legal
duty  to  render  aid  to  another.  Since  a  failure  to  act  can  lead  to
criminal  responsibility  only  in  the  face  of  a  duty  to  act,  the  adult's
failure to rescue the girl was not a crime.

This is true even though she could have saved the girl without risk to
herself, even though she knew that there was no one else who could
rescue the child, and even if she was related to the girl. A, B, and C
are therefore incorrect.

112. A Since the statute requires intent, and since the defendant did not intend
the  man's  death,  she  is  not  guilty  of  first  degree  murder  under  the
statute.

B is incorrect because once the man was asleep (and certainly once
he  was  tied  to  the  bed),  the  defendant  was  no  longer  in  danger  and

582

therefore  not  privileged  to  use  force  in  self-defense.  Although  some
first  degree  murder  statutes  include  deaths  resulting  from  the
commission of dangerous felonies, this particular statute does not. C
is therefore incorrect. Many first degree murder statutes include death
resulting from torture, but this one does not. D is therefore incorrect.

113. B At common law, larceny is defined as intentionally taking and carrying
off  the  personal  property  of  another  with  the  intent  to  permanently
deprive the owner of it. Since the defendant planned to return the pen
to the professor in a week or two, she lacked the intent to permanently
deprive him of it.

A  is  incorrect  because  if  she  had  the  requisite  intent  at  the  time  she
took the pen, the fact that it was later taken from her would not undo
the crime that she had already committed. C is incorrect because the
defendant lacked the requisite intent. There are no facts justifying the
inference on which D is based, but even if there were, the defendant's
taking  would  not  be  a  larceny  unless  she  intended  (i.e.,  was
substantially  certain)  that  the  professor  would  be  permanently
deprived of the pen.

114.  B  Robbery  is  larceny  accomplished  by  physical  force  or  threat.  The
defendant  clearly  committed  a  larceny.  Although  he  acquired
possession and carried off the briefcase without the use of force, the
issue is whether his subsequent use of force to retain possession was
sufficient to make him guilty of robbery. B is the only case in which
this issue arose.

In A,  no  force  was  used  after  acquisition  of  the  purse.  In  C  and  D,
although force was used to acquire the stolen property, none was used
thereafter.

115. B  One  who  incites  and  encourages  another  to  commit  a  crime  may  be
guilty  as  an  accomplice  or  accessory,  especially  when  he  or  she
derives  some  direct  benefit  from  the  crime.  Since  the  coworker
demanded  $25  to  cover  up  the  cashier's  crime  while  they  were
standing  in  front  of  the  open  safe  and  then  watched  as  the  cashier
reached into the safe and handed it to him, he can be found guilty as
an accessory to larceny.

Robbery  is  larceny  committed  by  force  or  threat  of  force.  A  is
incorrect because the threat that the coworker made was not of force.
Embezzlement is the fraudulent taking of property that is lawfully in

583

the defendant's possession. Since the $25 that the coworker took from
the  cashier  was  not  lawfully  in  the  coworker's  possession  to  begin
with,  he  did  not  embezzle  it.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  Crimes
characterized by the term fraud involve takings that are committed by
making  misrepresentations  that  induce  the  owner  to  willingly  part
with  possession  or  title.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  owner  of  the
supermarket was not induced to part with the money by reliance on a
misrepresentation.

116.  C  Vicarious  liability  refers  to  responsibility  that  is  imposed  on  one
person  for  a  crime  committed  by  another.  If  the  bartender  was  not
guilty of violating the statute, there has been no crime for which the
owner  can  be  held  vicariously  liable.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that
this  argument  will  succeed,  it  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could
possibly support the owner's defense.

A is incorrect because when vicarious liability is imposed, the fault
(or lack of fault) of the person on whom it is imposed is irrelevant. B
is similarly incorrect because vicarious liability may be imposed for
the  crime  committed  by  an  agent  even  though  the  agent  violated
specific  instructions  in  committing  it.  D  is  incorrect  because  a
bartender  selling  drinks  to  a  bar  customer  is  acting  in  the  scope  of
employment, since his or her conduct is designed to benefit his or her
employer  and  since  he  or  she  is  subject  to  the  employer's  right  of
control while doing so.

117. D  In  nearly  all  states,  the  defendant  is  liable  for  murder  if  he  or  she
causes  a  death  while  acting  with  a  “depraved  heart”  or  an  extreme
indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life.  For  depraved-heart  murder,
the  risk  of  death  or  serious  bodily  injury  has  to  be  so  great  that  the
defendant  can  be  said  to  act  with  great  recklessness.  Importantly,
negligence or even gross negligence won't suffice. Here, hunting deer
in a “densely populated suburban neighborhood” is likely so reckless
as to reach the level required for depraved-heart murder.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

118. C Kidnapping is the intentional asportation and confinement of a person
against  the  person's  will  by  means  of  force  or  threat  and  without
lawful  authority.  Although 
the  defendant
intentionally confined the bank manager against his will by means of
force and threat and without lawful authority, there is some question

is  obvious 

that 

it 

584

as to whether there was an asportation. Ordinarily, any moving of the
victim  satisfies  the  requirement  of  asportation.  Many  jurisdictions
now hold, however, that there is no asportation if the movement of the
victim  was  incidental  to  and  a  necessary  part  of  the  commission  of
some  other  substantive  crime.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court
would accept that view, the argument in C is the only one listed that
could possibly support the defendant's defense.

In some jurisdictions, a ransom demand makes the defendant guilty of
a  more  serious  degree  of  the  crime,  but  no  jurisdiction  requires  a
ransom demand as an essential element of kidnapping. A is therefore
incorrect. B is incorrect because, once committed, a crime cannot be
uncommitted. D is incorrect because the crime of kidnapping can be
committed against an adult as well as a child.

119. C The search of the other house was unlawful because the officers did
not  have  a  warrant  and  no  exception  to  the  warrant  requirement
applied.

Under the exigent circumstances exception to the warrant requirement,
police may enter a home without a search warrant to prevent harm to
persons,  prevent  the  imminent  destruction  of  evidence,  or  while  in
pursuit  of  a  suspect.  Here,  although  the  ex-husband  warned  the
officers  that  the  woman  would  be  coming  home  soon  and  could
destroy the evidence, there was no indication that the officers did not
have time to secure a warrant before the woman came home or that it
was likely the evidence was in imminent danger of being destroyed.
A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Under  the  consent  exception,  if  officers
receive  valid  consent  to  search  a  home,  they  do  not  need  a  search
warrant. Here, the ex-husband didn't actually tell the officers they had
permission to search the other house. In addition, even if he had given
permission,  there  was  no  indication  that  the  ex-husband  had  any
authority to consent to a search of his ex-wife's house. B is therefore
incorrect.  “Fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree”  refers  to  the  doctrine  that
illegally  obtained  evidence  cannot  be  used  for  the  purpose  of
obtaining  other  evidence.  Here,  the  officers  had  a  warrant  for  the
woman's  original  home.  Consequently,  there  is  no  issue  with  the
evidence  obtained  during  the  first  search,  and  the  “fruit  of  the
poisonous tree” doctrine would not apply. D is therefore incorrect.

120. C  Unless  a  defendant  was  ready,  willing,  and  able  to  give  affirmative
assistance  in  the  commission  of  the  crime,  his  or  her  presence  and

585

silent acquiescence are not sufficient to result in criminal liability.

Ordinarily,  one  is  not  under  any  obligation  to  attempt  to  prevent  a
crime from being committed. A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect
because,  even  with  criminal  intent,  mere  presence  at  the  scene  of  a
crime  is  not  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  requirement  of  actus  reus.  The
defendant  was  not  an  accessory  at  all  since  her  presence  was  not
sufficient participation, but in any event, she could not have been an
accessory  after  the  fact  since  the  crime  was  committed  after  her
involvement began. D is therefore incorrect.

121. C Since one purpose of the exclusionary rule is to deter police officers
from  violating  the  Fourth  Amendment,  information  obtained  as  a
result of an unlawful search may not be used to justify the issuance of
a warrant authorizing further search.

Such  a  warrant  is  invalid,  and  anything  found  pursuant  to  it  is
excluded  as  one  of  the  fruits  of  the  original  unlawful  search.  A  is
therefore incorrect. B is incorrect for the same reason, even though it
seems  sound.  Although  possession  of  stolen  items  is  not  in  itself
sufficient to permit the conclusion that the possessor was the thief, it
is certainly acceptable as circumstantial evidence to be considered by
a jury. D is therefore incorrect.

122. D Robbery is a larceny that is committed by force or threat to use force
against the lawful possessor of the property taken or any other person.
If  the  collector  gave  the  defendant  $1,000  because  he  knowingly
threatened to injure the daughter if she did not, his taking of the money
was robbery. Although he did not know that the daughter was in the
car when he first made the threat, it could be found that the threat was
continued by his conduct. Thus, if he knew that the daughter was in the
car  when  he  received  the  money  from  the  collector,  it  might  be
concluded that he obtained the money by a threat to burn the daughter,
not just the car.

A is incorrect for two reasons: First, he did not take the car by force,
and second, he is charged with robbery of the cash, not of the car. B
would  not  make  him  guilty  of  robbery  unless  he  knew  that  the
daughter was in the car when he threatened to burn it. C is incorrect
since  in  most  jurisdictions,  robbery  requires  that  the  threat  be
directed against a person.

123.  C  Statements  obtained  from  a  suspect  in  violation  of  his  or  her

586

constitutional rights (and, some authorities suggest, the fruits of such
statements) cannot be used against him or her. Only the person from
whom the statement was obtained, however, has standing to assert the
constitutional  violation.  Since  the  interrogation  of  the  man  did  not
violate  the  defendant's  rights,  the  defendant  lacks  the  necessary
standing to assert its unconstitutionality.

A and B  are  incorrect  because  there  are  no  facts  indicating  that  the
defendant's complicity would have been discovered without the man's
statement.  Since  the  interrogation  of  the  man  did  not  violate  the
constitutional  rights  of  the  defendant,  it  does  not  matter  whether  the
defendant  was  in  custody  at  the  time  it  took  place.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

124. D A defendant may be liable for involuntary manslaughter if his or her
conduct results in the accidental death of another person. Involuntary
manslaughter is particularly applicable to cases where the defendant
causes  a  drunk-driving  accident  that  kills  someone.  As  long  as  the
intoxication  was  a  significant  contributing  factor  to  the  accident,  the
defendant  is  almost  certainly  guilty  of  involuntary  manslaughter.
Importantly,  most  states  require  only  a  mental  state  of  gross
negligence, and driving while drunk constitutes recklessness (a higher
mental  state  than  gross  negligence).  Additionally,  in  a  jurisdiction
applying  the  misdemeanor-manslaughter  rule,  drunk  driving  will  at
least  be  a  misdemeanor.  Here,  since  defendant's  drunk  driving
constituted  recklessness  and  his  intoxication  proximately  caused  the
crime by leading to his mistaken belief that he was being chased, the
defendant  is  guilty  of  involuntary  manslaughter.  The  fact  that  the
victim  may  have  been  contributorily  negligent  is  not  a  defense  to
involuntary  manslaughter.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect
because  involuntary  manslaughter  does  not  require  the  defendant  to
intend  to  cause  the  death  of  the  victim.  C  is  incorrect  because  his
belief that he was being chased would not provide a defense for the
defendant.

125. C Felony murder is a foreseeable killing that occurs during the course of
a felony. In the majority of states, a person cannot be found guilty of
felony murder for the death of a co-felon if that co-felon is killed by
the  police.  Here,  since  the  defendant's  friend  was  shot  by  a  police
officer,  it  is  unlikely  he  would  be  found  guilty  of  felony  murder.
Therefore, A and B are incorrect.

587

D is incorrect because a death that occurs while fleeing the scene still
meets  the  requirements  of  felony  murder,  whether  or  not  the  felony
itself is technically completed.

126.  A  Criminal  battery  consists  of  the  intentional,  reckless,  or  criminally
negligent application of force to the body of another. The defendant's
act  of  shooting  through  the  ceiling  into  an  apartment  in  which  she
knew  there  were  people  probably  was  at  least  criminally  negligent,
and so it probably constituted a battery.

A  person  is  guilty  of  attempting  to  commit  a  crime  when,  with  the
specific intent to bring about a criminally proscribed result, he or she
comes  substantially  close  to  accomplishing  that  result.  Since
involuntary  manslaughter  is  an  unintended  homicide,  no  person  can
have the specific intent to commit it. Thus, there can be no attempt to
commit  it,  and  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Attempted  murder  and
attempted voluntary manslaughter both require an intent to kill. Since
the defendant did not intend to strike anyone with the bullet, C and D
are incorrect.

127. D A person is privileged to use reasonable force to protect himself or
herself  from  what  he  or  she  reasonably  believes  to  be  a  threat  of
imminent bodily harm. Since the friend fired a pistol at the defendant
and  was  (or  appeared  to  be)  capable  of  firing  it  again,  it  was
reasonable  for  the  defendant  to  believe  herself  threatened  with
imminent  bodily  harm  and  was  probably  reasonable  for  her  to
respond with deadly force.

If the friend's belief that the defendant was about to shoot her was a
reasonable one, the friend's use of force may have been privileged. A
is incorrect, however, because although an aggressor has no right of
self-defense  against  a  reasonable  response  to  his  or  her  initial
aggression,  the  defendant  committed  no  act  of  aggression  until  after
the  friend  fired  at  her.  Self-defense  may  privilege  the  use  of  deadly
force  in  response  to  what  is  reasonably  perceived  as  deadly  force.
Even though the force used by the friend had not yet caused death or
serious  injury,  it  was  capable  of  doing  so,  and  can  therefore  be
regarded  as  deadly  force.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because  even  a  premeditated  killing  may  be  privileged  by  self-
defense.

128.  D  At  common  law,  arson  was  defined  as  the  intentional  burning  of

588

another's  dwelling.  Under  the  statute  given,  the  definition  includes
buildings other than dwellings as well. Since the men desired to burn
down the factory, they had the necessary intent. Since they succeeded
in  doing  so,  they  are  guilty  of  arson.  Conspiracy  consists  of  an
agreement to commit a crime. Since the men agreed to commit arson,
they  are  guilty  of  conspiracy.  Conspiracy  does  not  merge  with  the
substantive  crime  and  may  be  the  basis  of  separate  prosecution  and
conviction. D is therefore correct.

129. C Robbery is a larceny where the property is taken from the person or
presence  of  the  owner,  and  the  taking  is  accomplished  by  force  or
threat.  Importantly,  a  larceny  is  the  trespassory  taking  and  carrying
away  of  the  personal  property  of  another  with  intent  to  steal.
Consequently, if the defendant is reclaiming his or her own property,
then the defendant is not committing robbery. This is true even if the
defendant  honestly  but  unreasonably  believes  that  what  he  or  she  is
taking  is  his  or  her  own  property.  Here,  the  defendant  has  not
committed larceny because he is taking back “his” own property, not
property of another.

A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

130. C Larceny is a trespassory taking and carrying off of personal property
known  to  be  another's  with  the  intent  to  permanently  deprive  the
owner.  Since  the  defendant  did  not  physically  move  the  couch,  she
may  successfully  argue  that  because  there  was  no  asportation  (i.e.,
carrying off), there was no larceny.

It is sometimes argued that one who enters through an unlocked door
committed no breaking and, therefore, is not guilty of burglary. A  is
incorrect, however, because breaking is not an element of larceny. If a
defendant  carried  off  personal  property  that  actually  was  his  or  her
own, he or she could not be guilty of larceny because he or she did
not take the property of another. If he or she mistakenly believed that
it was his or her own, he or she still would not be guilty of larceny
because  he  or  she  did  not  carry  off  property  known  to  be  another's.
The couch was not the defendant's, however, and she knew that it was
not hers. The fact that it was equal in value to her stereo would not,
therefore, justify her taking or carrying it off. B is therefore incorrect.
A  person  who  takes  and  carries  off  personal  property  known  to  be
another's  with  the  intent  to  permanently  deprive  is  guilty  of  larceny
without  regard  to  whether  or  not  he  or  she  intended  to  benefit  by

589

doing so. D is therefore incorrect.

131. A Some cases have held that the imposition of a prison term on the basis
of  vicarious  liability  for  a  strict-liability  crime  committed  by  a
defendant's  employee  is  a  violation  of  due  process.  It  is  generally
understood,  however,  that  the  imposition  of  a  fine  on  this  basis  is
this  statute  makes  an  employer
constitutionally  valid.  Since 
vicariously  liable  for  the  payment  of  a  fine  if  an  employee  sells
ammunition  to  a  minor,  and  since  the  owner's  employee  sold
ammunition to a minor, the owner may be convicted.

B and C  are  incorrect  because  of  the  specific  language  of  the  given
statute:  B  because  the  statute  imposes  strict  liability  and  does  not
make  negligence  or  unreasonable  behavior  a  basis  of  guilt,  and  C
because the statute does not make the employer's presence an element
of guilt. D is incorrect because it is over-inclusive: There are many
situations  in  which  criminal  law  may  validly  impose  vicarious
liability for the crime of another (e.g., co-conspirators are vicariously
liable  for  each  other's  crimes  committed  in  furtherance  of  the
conspiracy).

132.  D  One  of  the  elements  of  every  crime  is  the  actus  reus,  or  the
requirement  that  the  defendant's  conduct  be  a  voluntary  act.  If  a
defendant acts reflexively or while in a state of unconsciousness, his
or her actions do not fulfill the actus reus requirement and he or she
will  not  be  held  criminally  liable.  Here,  the  toxic  gas  caused  the
woman to lose voluntary control of her arms or legs, and she had no
control  over  them  when  she  punched  the  man.  Consequently,  she
cannot be held criminally liable for his death.

Therefore, A, B, and C are incorrect.

133. D  A  conspiracy  is  an  agreement  by  two  or  more  persons  to  commit  a
crime. Ordinarily, one who agrees to furnish services to another that
the  other  will  use  in  committing  a  crime  is  not  guilty  of  conspiracy
merely  because  he  or  she  knows  the  purpose  to  which  the  services
will be put. Where, however, the supplier has a stake in the criminal
enterprise,  his  or  her  agreement  to  furnish  services  may  constitute  a
conspiracy  to  commit  the  crime.  Since  the  defendant  knew  that  the
bank robber would be using his apartment as a hideout following the
robbery,  and  since  the  bank  robber's  promise  to  compensate  the
defendant by paying him a percentage of the loot gave the defendant a

590

stake  in  the  criminal  enterprise,  the  defendant  may  be  guilty  of
conspiracy.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the
defendant's agreement probably was per se unlawful, since he knew
that  the  bank  robber  would  be  hiding  in  his  apartment  to  escape
detection (i.e.,  that  he  would  be  harboring  a  felon),  and  second,  the
defendant had a personal stake in the bank robber's crime. The crime
of  conspiracy  to  commit  robbery  is  complete  when  the  defendant
agrees  with  another  to  commit  the  robbery,  and  is  a  separate  crime
from  the  robbery  itself.  Thus,  the  fact  that  a  defendant  is  guilty  of
robbery  is  not  relevant  to  the  issue  of  whether  he  or  she  conspired
(i.e., agreed) to commit it. For this reason, C is incorrect.

134. A  Once  a  criminal  defendant  has  asserted  his  or  her  right  to  have  an
attorney  present,  further  interrogation  in  the  absence  of  the  attorney
makes  any  incriminating  statements  by  the  defendant  inadmissible.
Since  the  defendant  was  questioned  after  asserting  his  right  to
counsel,  the  statement  that  he  made  in  response  to  that  questioning
should be excluded.

B and C are therefore incorrect. Even after asserting his or her right
to counsel, a defendant may waive that right by making incriminating
statements  during  a  discussion  that  the  defendant  initiates.  Since  the
defendant's  statement  was  made  in  response  to  a  question  by  the
police officer, however, it does not constitute a waiver of his rights
and is therefore inadmissible. D is therefore incorrect.

135. D Conspiracy occurs when two or more people with the specific intent
to commit a crime agree to commit it. Here, since the doctor did not
think  the  wife  would  die,  he  did  not  really  agree  to  commit  murder.
Consequently, there was no conspiracy.

A is incorrect because even if the man believed the pills were deadly
poison, he'd still have to reach an agreement to commit a crime with
someone else in order to be prosecuted for conspiracy. Here, no one
actually  agreed  to  help  him  kill  his  wife.  B  and  C  are  incorrect
because  the  crime  of  conspiracy  is  complete  when  the  unlawful
agreement is made. The success or failure of the substantive crime the
parties agree to do is irrelevant.

136. A  The  Fifth  Amendment  protects  a  defendant  from  being  coerced  into
answering police questions. Police must give Miranda warnings to a

591

person  in  custody  before  questioning  him  or  her.  If  the  person  in
custody then asserts his or her right to have an attorney present during
questioning,  all  interrogation  must  stop  until  the  attorney  arrives  or
the person gives a valid waiver. Here, while the woman received her
Miranda  warnings,  her  attorney  was  not  present  and  she  had  not
waived  her  rights  before  officers  started  questioning  her  about  the
robbery. Because police interrogation is coercive, a confession given
under the circumstances here would not be admissible. Therefore D is
incorrect.

B is incorrect because officers are only required to advise a person in
custody  of  his  or  her  rights.  Officers  are  not  required  to  tell  the
person about their suspicions. C is incorrect because the issue here is
that  the  officers  continued  to  question  her  after  giving  her  Miranda
warnings.

137.  A  Murder  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought. Malice aforethought may consist of intent to cause great
bodily harm. A defendant has intent to cause great bodily harm when
he  or  she  desires  or  knows  that  his  or  her  act  will  result  in  serious
injury. Here, by hitting the victim as hard as he could in the head with
a metal bat, the defendant at least knew his act was going to result in
serious  injury.  Voluntary  manslaughter  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  a
human being with the intent to cause death or great bodily harm, but
under  circumstances  where  the  defendant  is  suffering  from  great
emotional  distress  or  mistaken  justification.  B  is  incorrect  because
having  a  strike  called  on  a  person  during  a  baseball  game  does  not
result in great emotional distress or mistaken justification sufficient to
reduce  murder  to  voluntary  manslaughter.  Involuntary  manslaughter
occurs when the defendant's behavior is grossly negligent and results
in the accidental death of another person. C is incorrect because the
defendant intended to hit the victim with the bat. Battery is where the
defendant  intentionally  or  recklessly  causes  either  bodily  injury  or
offensive touching. D is incorrect because the defendant's actions are
sufficient  to  result  in  the  defendant  being  found  guilty  of  murder,  a
much more serious crime.

138. A Accomplice liability means that one who aids, abets, encourages, or
assists another to perform a crime will himself or herself be liable for
that crime. Importantly, if a defendant's words encourage or approve
of  the  crime,  and  thereby  assist  commission  of  the  crime,  then  the

592

speaker is liable even if he or she did not take any physical acts. The
defendant  is  an  accomplice  to  the  killing  of  the  victim  and  is
consequently  guilty  of  murder.  This  is  because  the  defendant
encouraged the man in the man's commission of the murder. The fact
that  the  defendant's  involvement  consisted  of  words  alone  doesn't
lessen  his  liability.  B  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect
because the defendant's actions encouraged the man to kill the victim,
whether  or  not  the  defendant  truly  intended  that  the  man  kill  the
victim.

139.  C  Under  the  common  law,  a  criminal  conspiracy  is  an  agreement
between  two  or  more  persons  to  commit  a  crime.  Without  such  an
agreement, there can be no conspiracy. Since neither officer actually
intended  to  commit  a  crime,  the  defendant  never  made  such  an
agreement  with  either  of  them,  even  though  he  believed  he  did.  For
this reason, he cannot be guilty of conspiracy.

A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

140. A The impossibility defense can be raised where the defendant has done
everything  in  his  or  her  power  to  accomplish  a  crime,  but,  due  to
other  circumstances,  no  substantive  crime  has  been  committed.  A
factual  impossibility  arises  out  of  a  defendant's  mistake  of  fact.  The
factual impossibility defense is always unsuccessful today. Here, the
fact  that  the  business  rival  was  already  dead  before  the  hitman  shot
him made it factually impossible to murder him, but it does not supply
the  hitman  with  a  defense  against  attempted  murder.  Under  the
principles  of  accomplice  liability,  since  the  defendant  aided  and
encouraged  the  hitman  to  kill  the  business  rival  by  hiring  him,  the
defendant is liable for any crime the hitman committed at his urging as
long as he had the requisite intent for that crime. Here, the defendant
had  the  requisite  intent  for  attempted  murder  because  he  wanted  the
business  rival  killed.  Since  the  hitman  cannot  defend  himself  by
claiming  factual  impossibility,  the  defendant  cannot  either.  D  is
therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because accomplice liability does
not require the defendant to be physically present at the scene of the
crime. C is incorrect because withdrawal is only effective when the
defendant  has  in  some  sense  undone  the  effects  of  his  or  her
assistance  and  encouragement.  Here,  the  hitman  didn't  receive  the
message until after the crime was committed.
