MBE.  MBE Sample Test Questions

The following sample questions are examples of test questions similar to those on the MBE. While 
these  sample  questions  illustrate  the  kinds  of  questions  that  will  appear  on  the  MBE,  they  do  not 
represent all the material covered. Examinees are advised to review the information on MBE content, 
including  the  MBE  Subject  Matter  Outline.  To  model  the  pacing  required  to  complete  a  full  MBE, 
these questions should be answered in approximately 38 minutes. An answer key follows on page 6. 

Multistate Bar Examination 

1. A  father  lived  with  his  son,  who  was  an  alcoholic.  When
drunk, the son often became violent and physically abused
his father. As a result, the father always lived in fear. One
night,  the  father  heard  his  son  on  the  front  stoop  making
loud obscene remarks. The father was certain that his son
was  drunk  and  was  terrified  that  he  would  be  physically
beaten again. In his fear, he bolted the front door and took
out a revolver. When the son discovered that the door was
bolted,  he  kicked  it  down.  As  the  son  burst  through  the
front door, his father shot him four times in the chest, killing
him. In fact, the son was not under the influence of alcohol
or any drug and did not intend to harm his father.

At trial, the father presented the above facts and asked the
judge to instruct the jury on self-defense.

How  should  the  judge  instruct  the  jury  with  respect  to
self-defense?

(A) Give the self-defense instruction, because it expresses

the defense’s theory of the case.

(B) Give  the  self-defense  instruction,  because  the  evi-

dence is sufficient to raise the defense.

(C) Deny the self-defense instruction, because the father

was not in imminent danger from his son.

(D) Deny the self-defense instruction, because the father

(A) The one-year residence requirement is valid because it
does not affect any fundamental right or suspect class.
(B) State durational residence requirements that are estab-
lished  for  publicly  funded  services  are  constitutional
because they relate to government operations reserved
exclusively to the states by the Tenth Amendment.
(C) Because  publicly  funded  education  is  a  fundamental
constitutional right, a state may not deny it to any class
of persons who reside in that state.

(D) State  durational  residence  requirements  established
for  this  kind  of  publicly  funded  service  solely  for  the
purpose  of  reducing  state  expenditures  violate  the
privileges  or  immunities  clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment.

4. A man has four German shepherd dogs that he has trained
for  guard  duty  and  that  he  holds  for  breeding  purposes.
The  man  has  “Beware  of  Dogs”  signs  clearly  posted
around  a  fenced-in  yard  where  he  keeps  the  dogs.  The
man’s next-door neighbor frequently walks past the man’s
house  and  knows  about  the  dogs’  ferocity.  One  summer
day,  the  neighbor  entered  the  man’s  fenced-in  yard  to
retrieve a snow shovel that the man had borrowed during
the past winter. The neighbor was attacked by one of the
dogs and was severely injured.

used excessive force.

In a suit against the man, is the neighbor likely to prevail?

2. A man sued a railroad for personal injuries suffered when his 
car was struck by a train at an unguarded crossing. A major
issue is whether the train sounded its whistle before arriving
at  the  crossing.  The  railroad  has  offered  the  testimony  of
a  resident  who  has  lived  near  the  crossing  for  15  years.
Although she was not present on the occasion in question,
she will testify that, whenever she is home, the train always
sounds its whistle before arriving at the crossing.

Is the resident’s testimony admissible?

(A) No, due to the resident’s lack of personal knowledge

regarding the incident in question.

(B) No, because habit evidence is limited to the conduct of

persons, not businesses.

(C) Yes, as evidence of a routine practice.
(D) Yes, as a summary of her present sense impressions.

3. To  keep  its  public  school  expenditures  under  control  in  a
time  of  increasing  costs,  a  state  passed  a  law  providing
that children who have not lived in the state for at least one
year cannot attend public schools in the state.

Which  of  the  following  statements  about  this  law  is  most
accurate as a matter of constitutional law?

(A) No, because the neighbor knew that the man had dan-

gerous dogs in the yard.

(B) No,  because  the  neighbor  was  trespassing  when  he

entered the man’s property.

(C) Yes, because the neighbor was an invitee for the pur-

pose of retrieving the shovel.

(D) Yes, because the man was engaged in an abnormally

dangerous activity.

5. A  woman  from  State  A  filed  an  action  against  a  retailer
in a state court in State B. The complaint alleged that the
retailer  had  not  delivered  $100,000  worth  of  goods  for
which the woman had paid.

Twenty days after being served, the retailer, which is incor-
porated in State C and has its principal place of business in
State B, filed a notice of removal in a federal district court
in State B.

Was the action properly removed?

(A) No, because the notice of removal was not timely filed.
(B) No, because the retailer is a citizen of State B.
(C) Yes,  because  the  parties  are  citizens  of  different
states and more than $75,000 is in controversy.
(D) Yes,  because  the  retailer  is  a  citizen  of  both  State  B

and State C.

Copyright © 2016, 2021 by the National Conference of Bar Examiners. All rights reserved. 

MBE Sample Test Questions  | 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
6. A  man  owned  a  house  where  he  lived  with  his  family.  The
man  was  convicted  of  selling  large  quantities  of  an  illegal
drug from his house. Acting under a state law authorizing the
destruction of buildings that are used for illegal activity, the
city destroyed the man’s house.

The man’s family then rented an apartment and demanded
that the city pay the rent for that temporary residence. The
family  relied  on  a  state  law  providing  that  any  person  who
was dispossessed of his or her place of residence because
of  the  actions  of  city  officials  was  entitled  to  replacement
housing  at  the  city’s  expense  until  permanent  substitute
housing  could  be  found.  When  the  city  refused  to  pay  the
rent  for  the  apartment,  the  man’s  family  sued  the  city  in  a
state trial court claiming a right to such payment under both
the state law and the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution.

The  highest  state  court  ruled  for  the  family.  Although  the
court decided that the family had no right to payment under
the state law, it held that the Fourteenth Amendment entitled
the  family  to  payment  of  the  rent  for  the  temporary  apart-
ment. In its opinion, the highest state court indicated that in
several of its decisions it had found cities liable for compen-
sation  in  similar  situations  on  the  basis  of  the  due  process
clause  of  the  state  constitution.  But  the  highest  state  court
declined to base its holding on the state constitution because
that issue had not been properly raised in the case.

The  city  then  filed  a  petition  for  a  writ  of  certiorari  in  the
United States Supreme Court.

Does the Court have jurisdiction to review the merits of this
case?

Is  the  sporting  goods  shop  legally  entitled  to  reject  the 
posters? 

(A) No, because the nonconformity does not materially alter
the value of the posters to the sporting goods shop.
(B) No, because the publisher must be given an opportunity
to  cure  the  nonconformity  before  the  sporting  goods
shop can reject the posters.

(C) Yes, because the posters do not conform to the contract.
(D) Yes,  because  the  publisher  has  breached  an  implied

warranty of fitness for a particular purpose.

8. A woman borrowed $800,000 from a bank and gave the bank
a note for that amount secured by a mortgage on her farm.
Several years later, at a time when the woman still owed the
bank $750,000 on the mortgage loan, she sold the farm to
a man for $900,000. The man paid the woman $150,000 in
cash and specifically assumed the mortgage note. The bank
received  notice  of  this  transaction  and  elected  not  to  exer-
cise the optional due-on-sale clause in the mortgage.

Without  informing  the  man,  the  bank  later  released  the
woman from any further personal liability on the note.

After he had owned the farm for a number of years, the man
defaulted  on  the  loan.  The  bank  properly  accelerated  the
loan, and the farm was eventually sold at a foreclosure sale
for $500,000. Because there was still $600,000 owing on the
note, the bank sued the man for the $100,000 deficiency.

Is the man liable to the bank for the deficiency?

(A) No, because the woman would have still been primarily
liable for payment, but the bank had released her from
personal liability.

(B) No, because the bank’s release of the woman from per-

sonal liability also released the man.

(A) Yes, because the highest state court based its decision

(C) Yes, because the bank’s release of the woman consti-

wholly on federal law grounds.

(B) Yes,  because  the  federal  and  state  law  issues  in  this
case are so intertwined that a resolution of the federal
law issues is necessary to facilitate a proper determina-
tion of the state law issues.

(C) No, because the decision of the highest state court ren-

ders the case moot.

(D) No, because independent state law grounds could have

been used to justify the result in this case.

7. A  sporting  goods  shop  contracted  with  a  publisher  to  buy,
for  sale  in  its  store,  1,200  posters  featuring  a  professional
golfer. During production, the image of the golfer was inad-
vertently  reversed  and  the  right-handed  golfer  appeared  to
be left-handed. When the posters were delivered on the date
provided in the contract, the sporting goods shop noticed the
discrepancy, which had no provable significant impact on the
effectiveness of the poster. In the opinion of the shop man-
agement, however, the posters did not look as good as they
had in the catalog from which the shop had ordered them.

tuted a clogging of the equity of redemption.

(D) Yes,  because  the  man’s  personal  liability  on  the  note

was not affected by the bank’s release of the woman.

9. A young man suggested to his friend that they steal a large-
screen TV from a neighbor’s house. The friend was angry with
the young man and decided to use the opportunity to get even
with  him  by  having  him  arrested.  The  friend  said  he  would
help, and that night, he drove the young man to the neighbor’s
house. The young man broke in while the friend remained out-
side. The friend called the police on his cell phone and then
drove  away.  Police  officers  arrived  at  the  scene  just  as  the
young man was carrying the TV out the back door.

The jurisdiction defines crimes as at common law.

Of what crime, if any, can the friend properly be convicted?

(A) No crime.
(B) Conspiracy.
(C) Burglary.
(D) Conspiracy and larceny.

2  | MBE Sample Test Questions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. A  50-year-old  nurse  who  had  been  fired  from  his  job  at  a
hospital  told  his  attorney,  “I  was  fired  because  of  my  age,
and I want to sue the hospital.”

Based  on  this  information,  the  attorney  filed  an  age
discrimination  complaint  against  the  hospital  in  federal
court. As it turned out, the hospital had hired a 52-year-old
man as the nurse’s replacement, a fact that rendered an age
discrimination claim unavailable. The hospital responded to
the  complaint  by  filing  a  motion  for  sanctions  against  the
nurse’s attorney.

Is the court likely to grant the hospital’s motion?

(A) No, because sanctions are not proper against the attor-

ney of a represented party.

(B) No, because the hospital failed to give the attorney the
chance to withdraw the complaint in advance of filing the
motion with the court.

(C) Yes,  because  the  nurse’s  attorney  failed  to  conduct  a

reasonable pre-filing inquiry.

(D) Yes,  because  the  nurse’s  complaint  contained  legal
contentions  that  were  not  warranted  by  existing  law
based on the facts in this case.

11. A  daughter  was  appointed  guardian  of  her  elderly  father
following  an  adjudication  of  his  mental  incompetence.  The
father had experienced periods of dementia during which he
did not fully understand what he was doing. The father later
contracted to purchase an automobile at a fair price from a
seller who was unaware of the guardianship. At the time of
the purchase, the father was lucid and fully understood the
nature and purpose of the transaction.

What is the legal status of the transaction?

(A) The contract is enforceable, because a reasonable per-
son in the situation of the seller would have thought that
the father had the capacity to make the contract.

(B) The  contract  is  enforceable,  because  it  was  made
on  fair  terms  and  the  seller  had  no  knowledge  of  the
father’s guardianship.

(C) The  contract  is  void,  because  the  father  was  under

guardianship at the time it was made.

(D) The contract is voidable at the option of the father.

12. Two  sisters  own  a  single  tract  of  land  as  tenants  in  com-
mon,  each  holding  a  one-half  interest.  The  younger  sister
entered  into  a  three-year  written  lease  with  a  tenant;  the
lease  described  by  metes  and  bounds  a  specified  portion
of the land, which consisted of about 40% of the total tract.
The tenant went into sole possession of the leased portion
of the land.

The  older  sister  has  sued  both  the  younger  sister  and  the
tenant  to  establish  the  older  sister’s  right  to  possession  of
the leased portion of the land.

Who is likely to prevail? 

(A) The  older  sister,  because  the  younger  sister  cannot
unilaterally  partition  the  land  without  the  older  sister’s
consent.

(B) The  older  sister,  because  the  younger  sister  may  not
lease her undivided interest in the land without the older
sister’s consent.

(C) The  younger  sister  and  the  tenant,  because  the  older
sister has been excluded only from the specified portion
of  the  land  subject  to  the  lease,  which  makes  up  less
than one-half of the land’s total area.

(D) The younger sister and the tenant, because the younger
sister’s lease to the tenant was necessarily for less than
a fee simple interest.

13. A  state  law  prohibits  any  barbershop  licensed  by  the  state
from displaying posters in support of any current candidate
for  public  office  or  displaying  or  distributing  any  campaign
literature in support of such a candidate. No other kinds of
posters  or  literature  are  subject  to  this  prohibition,  nor  are
any  other  types  of  commercial  establishments  in  the  state
subject to similar prohibitions.

Is this law constitutional?

(A) No, because it treats barbershops differently from other

commercial establishments.

(B) No,  because  it  imposes  a  restriction  on  the  content  or
subject matter of speech in the absence of any evidence
that such a restriction is necessary to serve a compel-
ling state interest.

(C) Yes, because it leaves political candidates free to com-
municate  their  campaign  messages  to  voters  by  other
means.

(D) Yes, because the operation of a licensed barbershop is
a  privilege  and  therefore  is  subject  to  any  reasonable
restriction imposed by the state.

14. A  defendant  was  prosecuted  for  mail  fraud.  At  trial,  the
defendant  moved  to  have  all  witnesses  excluded  from  the
courtroom,  and  the  court  granted  the  motion.  The  govern-
ment  named  the  investigating  FBI  agent  as  its  designated
representative. Upon learning that the agent would be giving
testimony  during  the  trial,  the  defendant  moved  that  the
agent also be excluded from the courtroom.

Should the defendant’s motion be granted?

(A) No,  provided  that  the  government  can  show  that  the
agent’s  presence  is  essential  to  the  presentation  of  its
case.

(B) No,  because  the  government  has  a  right  to  have  its
designated  representative  remain  in  the  courtroom
through- out the trial.

(C) Yes, because the agent’s testimony might be influenced

by the testimony of other witnesses.

(D) Yes,  because  the  defendant  has  a  right  to  exclude  all
persons who may be called as government witnesses.

MBE Sample Test Questions  | 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. A man entered a tavern in an obviously intoxicated condition,
was refused service, and was ordered to leave and escorted
out. Just after leaving the tavern, the man staggered across
the road toward a liquor store. As he was crossing the road,
the man was struck by a car and severely injured.

The man sued the tavern for his personal injuries. At trial, the
evidence established the facts as set out above.

At  the  close  of  the  evidence,  both  parties  moved  for  judg-
ment as a matter of law.

How should the court rule on these motions?

(A) Deny  both  motions  and  submit  the  case  to  the  jury,
because reasonable jurors could conclude that the acci-
dent was foreseeable.

(B) Deny  both  motions  and  submit  the  case  to  the  jury,

because a tavern is a place of public accommodation.

(C) Grant the tavern’s motion, because there is no evidence

that the tavern breached a duty to the man.

(D) Grant the man’s motion, because it is undisputed that by
being ejected from the tavern, the man was put at risk.

16. A  protester  brought  an  action  in  federal  court  against  a
police officer, alleging that the officer’s use of force in arrest-
ing the protester violated the protester’s federal civil rights.

During the jury trial, eyewitnesses gave conflicting testimony
on the arrest. At the close of evidence, the protester moved
for judgment as a matter of law, which the court denied.

The  court  instructed  the  jury  that  the  protester’s  burden  of
proof  was  clear  and  convincing  evidence,  rather  than  the
correct burden  of preponderance  of the evidence.  The jury
returned a verdict for the officer, and the court entered judg-
ment accordingly.

What  is  the  protester’s  best  option  for  challenging  the
judgment?

(A) Seek  a  new  trial,  because  the  jury  instruction  affected

the protester’s substantial rights.

(B) Seek  a  new  trial,  because  the  verdict  was  against  the

clear weight of the evidence.

(C) Seek judgment as a matter of law, because the jury did
not have legally sufficient evidence to find for the officer.
(D) Seek  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law,  because  the  jury’s

findings were clearly erroneous.

17. An  attempt  was  made  to  hijack  a  commercial  airliner  while
it  was  in  flight  from  San  Francisco  to  New  Orleans.  Within
minutes,  however,  the  hijacker  was  seized,  and  the  plane
proceeded  to its  destination.  Upon  the plane’s  arrival, tele-
vision stations broadcast pictures of the passengers as they
disembarked. Among the passengers pictured on television
was a businessman who was supposed to be in Chicago on
company  business.  The  disclosure  that  the  businessman
was in New Orleans and not in Chicago at the time resulted
in the loss of his position with his company and great humil-
iation and embarrassment for him.

If  the  businessman  asserts  a  claim  against  the  television 
stations  for  broadcasting  his  picture  as  he  disembarked,  is 
he likely to prevail? 

(A) Yes, because the businessman’s location was revealed

against his wishes.

(B) Yes,  because  publication  of  the  television  pictures

caused the businessman pecuniary loss.

(C) No, because the humiliation and embarrassment did not

result in physical harm to the businessman.

(D) No,  because  the  scene  shown  on  television  was

newsworthy.

18. A  company  contracted  with  a  builder  to  construct  a  new
corporate headquarters for a fixed price of $100 million. At
the time of the contract, structural steel was widely available
and was included in the contract as a $6 million item. Before
work began on the project, tornado damage shut down the
production  facility  of  the  biggest  structural  steel  supplier  in
the  country,  and  the  price  of  structural  steel  increased  by
20%  as  a  result.  The  builder  informed  the  company  of  the
steel  price  increase,  and  the  parties  then  orally  agreed  to
increase the project price to $101 million.

The  builder  proceeded  with  construction  and  delivered  the
project on time. The company paid the builder $100 million
but refused to pay the additional $1 million.

If the builder sues the company for $1 million, is the builder
likely to prevail?

(A) No,  because  the  modification  was  never  reduced  to  a

writing signed by the party to be charged.

(B) No, because there was no consideration for the modifi-

cation of the contract.

(C) Yes, because the company’s promise was supported by

consideration.

(D) Yes, because the modification was fair and equitable in
view of the unanticipated increase in the price of struc-
tural steel.

19. At  a  defendant’s  trial  for  extortion,  the  prosecutor  called  a
witness expecting her to testify that she had heard the defen-
dant threaten a man with physical harm unless the man made
payoffs  to  the  defendant.  The  witness  denied  ever  having
heard the defendant make such threats, even though she had
testified  to  that  effect  before  the  grand  jury.  The  prosecutor
now seeks to admit the witness’s grand jury testimony.

How  should  the  court  rule  with  regard  to  the  grand  jury
testimony?

(A) Admit the testimony, because it contains a statement by

a party-opponent.

(B) Admit  the  testimony,  both  for  impeachment  and  for
substantive use, because the witness made the incon-
sistent statement under oath at a formal proceeding.
(C) Admit the testimony under the former testimony excep-

tion to the hearsay rule.

(D) Exclude the testimony for substantive use, because it is

a testimonial statement.

4  | MBE Sample Test Questions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. A  man  arranged  to  have  custom-made  wooden  shutters
installed  on  the  windows  of  his  home.  The  contractor  who
installed the shutters did so by drilling screws and brackets
into the exterior window frames and the shutters.

The man later agreed to sell the home to a buyer. The sales
agreement  did  not  mention  the  shutters,  the  buyer  did  not
inquire  about  them,  and  the  buyer  did  not  conduct  a  walk-
through inspection of the home before the closing.

The man conveyed the home to the buyer by warranty deed.
After the sale closed, the buyer noticed that the shutters and
brackets  had  been  removed  from  the  home  and  that  the
window frames had been repaired and repainted.

The  buyer  demanded  that  the  man  return  the  shutters  and
pay the cost of reinstallation, claiming that the shutters had
been conveyed to him with the sale of the home. When the
man refused, the buyer sued.

Is the buyer likely to prevail?

(A) No,  because  the  sales  agreement  did  not  mention  the

shutters.

(B) No, because the window frames had been repaired and

repainted after removal of the shutters.

(C) Yes, because the shutters had become fixtures.
(D) Yes, because the man gave the buyer a warranty deed
and the absence of the shutters violated a covenant of
the deed.

21. The  president  of  a  pharmaceutical  firm  received  a  report
from his testing bureau that a manufactured lot of the firm’s
anti-cancer prescription medication was well below strength.
Concerned  about  being  able  to  fulfill  contractual  commit-
ments, the president instructed his staff to deliver the defec-
tive  lot.  A  cancer  patient  who  had  been  maintained  on  the
drug died shortly after beginning to take the defective pills.
Medical  evidence  established  that  the  patient  would  have
lived  longer  had  the  drug  been  at  full  strength,  but  would
have died before long in any event.

The  president  was  convicted  of  murder.  On  appeal,  he
argues that his conviction should be reversed.

Should the conviction be reversed?

(A) No,  because  the  intentional  delivery  of  adulterated  or
mislabeled drugs gives rise to strict criminal liability.
(B) No,  because  the  jury  could  have  found  that  the  pres-
ident’s  conduct  was  sufficiently  reckless  to  constitute
murder.

(C) Yes, because distribution of the defective lot was only a

regulatory offense.

(D) Yes,  because  the  cancer,  not  the  president’s  conduct,

was the proximate cause of death of the patient.

MBE Sample Test Questions  | 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Answer Key 

1. B

2. C

3. D

4. A

5. B

6. A

7. C

8. D

9. A

10. B

11. C

12. A

13. B

14. B

15. C

16. A

17. D

18. D

19. B

20. C

21. B