MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Torts

Property

Contracts

J

Criminal Law

Evidence

Constitutional Law




MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE
"EARLY BIRD" WORKSHOP
QUESTIONS

Torts
Property
Contracts
Criminal Law
Evidence
Constitutional Law

Copyright © 2007
FIRST PUBLICATION 1976, REVISED YEARLY

Kaplan, Inc.

Copyright © 2007 by
KAPLAN, INC.

The PMBR course materials are copyrighted and
may not be reprinted, reproduced or resold
without the written consent of Kaplan, Inc.
Kaplan strictly enforces the copyright of its intel-
lectual property. PMBR students have a mere
license to utilize PMBR course materials in
preparation for their bar exam. PMBR students do
not have Kaplan's authorization to reprint, repro-
duce, or resell PMBR copyrighted course materi-
als.

Published by
KAPLAN, INC.
1247 6th Street
Santa Monica, CA 90401

Printed in the United States of America

tositabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Torts. (from Lat. torquere, to twist, tortus, twis
aside). A private or civil wrong or injury, other 1
of contract, for which the court will provide a re]
form of an action for damages. A violation of
posed by general law or otherwise upon all persc
ing the relation to each other which is involved
transaction. Coleman v. California Yearly
Friends Church, 27 Cal.App2d 579, 81 P.2d 469,

M ULTISTATE
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

IN THE BOXES PROVIDED BELOW, PRINT YOUR LAST NAME
SKIP A BOX, THEN PRINT YOUR FIRST NAME, SKIP A BOX,
THEN PRINT YOUR MIDDLE INITIAL.

LAST NAME THEN FIRST NAME

PRACTICE
EXAMINATION

TORTS

MARK YOUR CHOICE OF AN ANSWER WITH A SINGLE,  HEAVY, DARK LINE.
USE NO. 2 PENCIL ONLY. ERASE COMPLETELY ANY ANSWER YOU WISH TO CHANGE.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

L

9

1 0

r-

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

1.■
ABCD

ABCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

1 1

12

13

14

15

16

17

A BCD

A BCD

ABCD

A BCD

ABCD

A BCD

A BCD

18

r-,U

A BCD

19

20

A BCD

A BCD

21

22
r

23
1

r-•

24

25

t.-

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

ABCD

A BCD

26

U

A BCD

27
r

28

29

30

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

31

32

33

34

r

35

-J

36

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

37

UA BCD

38

39

40

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

41

42

43

r-•

44

45

r

46

47

48

49

•■■
A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

A BCD

ABCD

A BCD

A BCD

•■•
A BCD

ABCD

50

I

A BCD

Question 1 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 2 is based on the following fact situation.

Peters was a sports enthusiast who enjoyed playing
rugby on the weekends with a group of friends
from college. The rugby matches were usually quite
competitive and invariably someone would experi-
ence a minor injury because of the large degree of
physical contact usually associated with the sport.
During one Saturday afternoon rugby match, Peters
was running to catch the ball when he was pushed
down from behind by Dooley. Peters suffered a bro-
ken arm and brought suit against Dooley seeking
damages.

2.	 Will Peters prevail?

(A) Yes, because Peters suffered a harmful

and offensive touching.

(B) Yes, if Dooley intended to push Peters.
(C) No, because Peters assumed the risk of

physical injury.

(D) No, unless Dooley intentionally pushed
Peters with a degree of force beyond the
scope of the rugby players' consent to
physical contact.

Keiki, a graduate of University of Hawaii Law
School, received notice that she had successfully
passed the Hawaii bar exam. To celebrate passing,
Keiki went out with a few friends to the Aloha Hut,
a popular campus bar. While sitting at the bar,
Malihini, Keiki's friend, ordered a round of "Hula
Girls" for everyone. A "Hula Girl" is an extremely
potent alcoholic drink consisting of 2 oz. of dry
gin, 1 oz. French vermouth with 1 tsp. grenadine.
After the drink is mixed, it is then served in a glass
with an inverted lemon peel which is cut at the ends
to represent a grass skirt.

Although Keiki had never heard of a "Hula Girl"
before, she was in a festive mood and drank it any-
way. A few minutes later, Keiki became very dizzy
and attempted to stand up from the bar stool. As
she tried to walk to the restroom, she got nauseous
and then vomited over Haole, a customer, sitting at
a nearby table. Haole was embarrassed and greatly
humiliated by the incident.

1.	

If Haole asserts a claim against Keiki, the
plaintiff will most likely

(A) prevail, because Keiki's conduct was

extreme and outrageous

(B) prevail, because an offensive touching

resulted

(C) not prevail, because Keiki's actions were

involuntary

(D) not prevail, because Haole was embar-
rassed and humiliated but suffered no
other injury

phi'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

TORTS

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

Bambi and her boyfriend, Barkley, were third-year
students at Cumberland Law School. Bambi and
Barkley lived together in an apartment at the
Clemson Towers in the Longwood section of
Birmingham. One evening Bambi and Barkley got
into a heated argument after Bambi confessed to
having an affair with Professor Toote, her
Admiralty instructor. After Barkley slapped Bambi,
she left the apartment vowing never to return. As
Bambi was hastily walking down the hallway
toward the front door, Barkley chased Bambi and
begged her to stay. When Bambi refused, Barkley
grabbed her arm and tried to apologize. Bambi then
told Barkley the relationship was over and to please
let go of her arm. As Barkley continued to try to
prevent Bambi from leaving, she kneed him in the
groin.

The noise from this struggle attracted the attention
of Mrs. Mertz, who lived in the Clemson Towers.
Mrs. Mertz opened her apartment door and stood in
the hallway watching Bambi and Barkley grappling
with one another. Mrs. Mertz then started shouting
encouragement to Bambi. As the struggle ensued,
Bambi swung her pocketbook at Barkley. When he
ducked to avoid being hit, Barkley fell backwards
into Mrs. Mertz and accidentally struck her chin
with his elbow. The force of the blow fractured
Mrs. Mertz's jaw.

3.	

If Mrs. Mertz asserts a tort action against
Barkley, she will most likely

(A) prevail, because an offensive touching

(B) prevail, if Barkley was negligent
(C) not prevail, because Barkley struck her

(D) not prevail, if Barkley acted in self-

occurred

accidentally

defense

Bates owned Winterthur, a 200 acre tract of
farmland, located in the northeast sector of New
Hampshire. There was a private roadway which
extended along a section of Winterthur and led
into a public highway. Frequently, motorists would
utilize this private roadway as a shortcut to gain
access to the highway. Although Bates posted
"No Trespassing" signs along his property, he was
unable to prevent motorists from traversing across
his farm.

During a winter snowstorm, sections of the public
highway were closed as snow removal units tried to
clear the road. As a result, many motorists used
Bates private roadway as an alternate access route.
As Bates himself was operating a tractor and
removing snow along his roadway, a car driven by
Asher approached from behind. Realizing that he
was unable to pass Bates, Asher honked his horn
and motioned for Bates to let him through.

Becoming agitated, Bates hollered at Asher and told
him to turn around and get off his property. When
Asher refused to turn around, Bates hopped off the
tractor and approached Asher's vehicle. Afraid that
Bates was about to attack him, Asher put his car in
reverse and attempted to drive off Bates then
picked up a rock and threw it at Asher. The rock
struck the windshield of the car. Frightened, Asher
momentarily lost control of the vehicle. He then
proceeded to drive off

4.	

If Asher asserts a claim against Bates, Asher
will most likely

(A)
recover for trespass to chattels
(B)
recover for assault and battery
(C) not recover, because Bates was privi-

leged to use reasonable force to prevent
Asher's entry onto the property
(D) not recover, unless Bates intended to
cause an offensive or harmful contact

TORTS

2

posebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

Pauline is an 18-year-old high school student who
was experiencing emotional problems resulting
from her parents' recent divorce. Don, a teacher at
Pauline's school found out about Pauline's problems
at home and tried to get Pauline to discuss her feel-
ings. Don and Pauline would meet after school and
talk several times each week. After several months
of long conversations, Don and Pauline engaged in
a sexual relationship. After Pauline's mother discov-
ered the relationship and confronted her daughter,
Pauline needed to seek counseling from a psy-
chotherapist to deal with the emotional turmoil.
Pauline's mother brought suit against Don on
Pauline's behalf.

5.	

The most likely grounds for recovery is to
bring a suit on a theory of

(A) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(B)

intentional infliction of emotional dis-
tress
battery
invasion of privacy

(C)
(D)

The city of Metropolis has an ordinance that makes
it an offense, punishable by fine, for the owner of a
dog to permit the dog to run unleashed on a public
way.

Smythe, a police officer, observed a small dog
running loose in the street. As he picked the dog
up, Nelson, who was seated in her car lawfully
parked at the curb, called out, "Oh, thank you,
Officer, for returning Fido." Smythe asked Nelson
whether the dog was hers, and when she acknowl-
edged ownership, he asked her to see her driver's
license. Nelson gave her name and address, but she
refused to produce a driver's license. Smythe then
told her to produce her driver's license if she did
not want to go to jail. Nelson responded by saying,
"Isn't this ridiculous?" Smythe took her by the arm
and said, "Let's go. You are under arrest."

Nelson cried out that Smythe was hurting her but
he refused to release her arm, and she struck him
with her free hand. Smythe then dragged Nelson
from her car, forced her into his squad car, and
took her to the police station.

The incident took place on the street in front of
the apartment where Nelson and her aged father,
Joplin, lived. Smythe did not know that Joplin
had observed what took place from a window in
the apartment.

6.	

If Nelson's father, Joplin, asserts a claim
against Smythe for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, will Joplin prevail?

(A) Yes, if Smythe's acts caused Joplin

severe emotional distress.

(B) Yes, if it is found that Smythe's behavior
was extreme and outrageous with
respect to Nelson.

(C) No, because Smythe did not know that

Joplin was watching.

(D) No, because Joplin was not within the

zone of physical danger.

pstable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

TORTS

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 8 is based on the following fact situation.

Priscilla Patterson went to Dr. Goodright for treat-
ment of a painful ear discomfort which had caused
her to experience loss of balance, dizziness and
nausea. While Dr. Goodright was examining her
inner ear, he noticed a lump of wax. As Dr.
Goodright was removing the lump with his hemo-
stat (elongated medical instrument), he also noticed
what appeared to be the rear legs of an insect. With
utmost care, Dr. Goodright extracted the foreign
object from Priscilla's ear.

Dr. Goodright then examined the substance, which
proved to be a German cockroach. As he held the
insect in front of Priscilla to see, she became hys-
terical, fainted, and fell to the floor breaking her
collarbone. The incident caused Priscilla to develop
a phobia and she became deathly afraid of insects.

Jensen lived along the coast in Gulf Shores,
Alabama. There was a national weather advisory
warning all residents that Hurricane Hazel was
approaching the Gulf Shore area. The national
weather bureau warned all Gulf Shore residents
to evacuate their homes and flee inland for
their safety.

Jensen, who heard the announcment, ignored the
warning and stayed at home. The hurricane caused
torrential flooding and destroyed Jensen's home.
To save his life, Jensen took his neighbor's boat
without permission and navigated it across the gulf.
The boat, which was owned by Baxter, was worth
$25,000. While Jensen was operating the boat,
the mast from the keel broke off, causing $8,000
in damages.

7.	

In a suit for damages against Dr. Goodright,
which of the following torts would provide
Priscilla with her best theory of recovery?

8.	

Baxter has asserted a tort action against
Jensen. The plaintiff should be entitled to
recover

(A) battery
(B) negligence
(C) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(D)

intentional infliction of emotional dis-
tress

(A) nothing, because Jensen took the boat in

an emergency situation

(B) nothing, unless Jensen was negligent in
causing the boat to be damaged
$8,000

(C)
(D) $25,000

TORTS

4

psubt'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 9 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

Vic Vicory was an attorney who had an office in
Greensboro. After winning a big antitrust case, Vic
and a few associates decided to celebrate and have
a few drinks at The Rainbow Room, a popular
downtown watering hole. After having two gimlets
(a cocktail containing vodka and Rose's lime juice),
Vic left his friends and drove home.

Vic, who was a bit tipsy, began driving in an erratic
and reckless manner. He was traveling at an exces-
sive speed along a residential section of town when
he approached a sharp curve in the roadway. Trying
to negotiate the turn, Vic lost control of his vehicle
and it veered off the road and landed on the front
lawn of Edna Edsell's property.

10. If Edna asserts a claim against Vic for enter-

ing her land, she will most likely

(A) prevail, because Vic was operating his

car recklessly

(B) prevail, because Vic entered onto her

property

(C) not prevail, unless Vic damaged her land
(D) not prevail, because he did not intention-

ally enter onto her property

One evening Feinstein was having dinner at
Madame Wu's Chinese Restaurant in Georgetown.
After finishing her meal, she went to the coatroom
to retrieve her overcoat. Inadvertently, Feinstein
took Haller's overcoat which was the same color
and design as her own coat. Honestly believing that
she had her coat, Feinstein left the restaurant with-
out noticing the difference.

When Feinstein arrived home about one hour later,
she discovered the mistake. Since it was nearly
midnight, Feinstein decided to wait and return the
coat the next day. The following morning, Feinstein
was driving back to Madame Wu's with the over-
coat when she was involved in a near fatal automo-
bile accident. A bus driver lost control of his
vehicle and crashed head-on into Feinstein's car.
Feinstein, who suffered multiple injuries, was
trapped in the mangled wreckage and had to be
pried from the car. The overcoat, which Feinstein
was returning, was ripped to shreds and destroyed.

9.	

If Haller asserts a claim against Feinstein to
recover the value of the coat, will Haller pre-
vail?

Yes, because Feinstein intended to take
the coat and it was destroyed while in
her possession.
Yes, because by not returning the coat
when she discovered the mistake, Fein-
stein committed a continuing trespass to
chattel property.
No, because since Feinstein honestly
believed the coat to be her own, she
lacked the requisite mens rea when she
took it.
No, because Feinstein tried to return the
coat within a reasonable time after dis-
covering her mistake.

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

TORTS


Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

One morning Drake Dobberman and his friend,
Fenwick Friehofer, were playing golf at the
Greenhill Country Club. Drake and Fenwick
were 16-year-old boys who attended Seton Hall
Preparatory School. They were members of the
golf team and were evenly matched players. After
completing the first nine holes, Drake was leading
Fenwick by three strokes, 40 to 43. The boys
approached the 10th hole which was a par four and
467 yards long. Drake shot first and hit a towering
tee shot down the left side of the fairway about 240
yards. Fenwick then hit his tee shot which traveled
down the middle of the fairway. The ball, however,
struck a tree limb that extended over the fairway
and deflected onto Virginia Slim's property which
was adjacent to the golf course. Virginia, who was
sitting outside on a lounge chair, was struck on the
head by Fenwick's golf ball. Virginia suffered a
bump on her head but was not otherwise seriously
injured.

11. If Virginia brings suit against Fenwick for

trespass, she will

Dwyer is a fifty-two-year-old woman who is a
diabetic. As part of her daily medical routine, she
drinks a pint of orange juice. Early one evening
Dwyer realized she had not had her dosage of
orange juice. She then went to Wawa Convenience
Store to buy a carton of orange juice. As she was
in line waiting to pay, Dwyer started to feel light-
headed. Since the line of customers was quite long,
she went to the checkout counter and put two
dollars down. The list price for the orange juice
was $1.79. She proceeded to leave the store.

Hardcastle, Wawa's security guard, saw Dwyer
walk out the store with the orange juice carton in
her hand. Believing that she had stolen the juice,
he followed her out the store. When he saw her
get into her car, Hardcastle immediately jumped
into the company van. He then drove the van
behind Dwyer's car preventing her from leaving.
Hardcastle then approached Dwyer's car intending
to question her regarding the suspected theft.
Unable to exit the store parking lot, Dwyer being
frightened and suffered a diabetic seizure.

(A) prevail, because the golf ball intruded

12. If Dwyer asserts a false imprisonment action

onto Virginia's property

(B) prevail, because Fenwick intended the

act of hitting the golf ball

(C) prevail, because Virginia did suffer a

physical injury

(D) not prevail, because it was an accidental

entry that was unintentional

against Wawa, she should

(A) prevail, because Hardcastle blocked her

exit

(B) prevail, because she didn't steal anything
(C) not prevail, if Hardcastle acted reason-

ably in believing a theft had occurred
(D) not prevail, because it was unforeseeable

that a temporary detention would result
in the detainee suffering a diabetic
seizure

TORTS

6

pziabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

Schmidt and Luzinski are adjacent homeowners.
On Schmidt's property is a large oak tree which
overhangs onto Luzinski's driveway. Luzinski often
parks his car under the tree in the summer to shade
it from the sun. One day a large limb that is
decayed breaks off and injures Luzinski as he is
getting out of his car.

14. If Luzinski subsequently brings an action
against Schmidt, the plaintiff will

(A)

(B)

recover, because Schmidt will be liable
for trespass
recover, because Schmidt owed a non-
delegable duty to persons outside the
premises

(C) not recover, because Luzinski assumed
the risk by parking under the tree
(D) not recover, unless Schmidt should have

been aware the tree limb was decayed

Lloyd and Benson were old friends who enjoyed
hunting together. One weekend Lloyd and Benson
went on a quail hunting expedition in a remote
wilderness area deep in the Wasatch Mountains of
northeastern Utah. They were hunting in a very des-
olate area surrounded by mountainous terrain which
was located at least fifty miles from any habitation.
With hunting rifles in hand, they were ambling
around but no game was visible. After a rather
uneventful morning with nothing to shoot at, Lloyd
suddenly spotted a Utah condor, a large nearly
extinct vulture. The condor was of an endangered
species and to shoot one in Utah was a criminal
offense.

Unable to resist the temptation, Lloyd took a shot at
the condor. The bullet missed the vulture but struck
Bush, a state forest ranger, who was hiding in a
secluded area, watching a trail frequented by drug
smugglers. The bullet hit Bush in the eye and per-
manently blinded him. Neither Lloyd nor Benson
were aware of Bush's presence.

13. If Bush asserts a claim against Lloyd to

recover damages for his injury, Bush will

(A) prevail, if Lloyd negligently shot the gun
(B) prevail, because Lloyd intended to shoot

the condor

(C) not prevail, because Lloyd had no reason
to anticipate the presence of another per-
son in such a remote area

(D) not prevail, if the bullet ricocheted off a

tree and hit Bush

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

TORTS

Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 16 is based on the following fact situation.

Shirley Swoopes was a physical education teacher
at Morningside High School in New York. One
day Shirley saw Tim Tully, a 17 year-old student,
walking down the hallway. Shirley noticed that
Tim had a gun protruding from his backpack.
Afraid that Tim might shoot her or react violently,
Shirley remained silent and did not report the
incident to anyone.

After school let out, Tim used the weapon in a
robbery at a liquor store which was located across
the street from the high school. During the robbery,
Tim shot and seriously injured the proprietor,
Chase Carey.

15. Chase thereafter brings a civil action against
Shirley and Morningstar High School to
recover damages. He should

(A) not recover, because Shirley owed no

duty to Chase

(C)

(B) not recover, because Tim committed the
criminal act outside the school grounds
recover, because Shirley did not take any
action against the student to have the
gun confiscated
recover, if it was foreseeable that Tim
would use the gun in the commission of
a crime

(D)

Amy and Beth were second-year law students at
Boalt Hall in Berkeley, California. One weekend
Amy had made plans to drive to Los Angeles to
visit her boyfriend. Beth, whose family lived in the
Los Angeles area, asked Amy if she could accom-
pany her on the journey. Amy agreed. Before leav-
ing on the trip, Carl, Amy's neighbor, asked her if
she would deliver a small package to his brother in
Los Angeles. She assented and placed the package
in the glove compartment of the car. Unknown to
Amy, the package contained hyrozoic acid, a caustic
chemical, which Carl's brother was planning to use
in a chemistry experiment.

During their drive to Los Angeles, Beth reached
into the glove compartment to get a roadmap. As
she did so, Beth inadvertently grabbed Carl's pack-
age which had been leaking acid. The acid seriously
burned her hand.

16. If Beth asserts a claim against Amy, the prob-

able result is that Beth will

(A)

recover, because Amy will be strictly
liable
recover, because Amy was under a duty
to ascertain the contents of the package
(C) not recover, because Amy was unaware

(B)

of the contents of the package

(D) not recover, because Beth and Amy were

engaged in a joint venture

TORTS

8

psithe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 17 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

McGuinn was a guest of the exclusive Nob Hill
Hotel in San Francisco where he was residing on a
long-term basis. The hotel's outer structure had
been built as a replica of the classic Roman style of
architecture with Ionic columns and marble fres-
coes draped over the entrance. The elaborate entry-
way led inside to a variety of shops and restaurants
which adjoined the hotel lobby.

The Nob Hill management knew that pigeons often
nested inside the overhead sculptures. This resulted
in pigeon droppings frequently falling outside the
main entryway. Consequently, the hotel manage-
ment instructed its employees to clean the area
around the front entrance on a daily basis.

One afternoon McGuinn's friend, Crosby, came by
the Nob Hill Hotel to pay a visit. As Crosby walked
under the columns to enter the hotel, he slipped on
some pigeon droppings which had not been wiped
up. On this particular day the hotel employees had
failed to clean the entrance area. Injuring his leg,
Crosby now brings suit against the Nob Hill.

Thad and Terri Tabor lived in a quiet residential
neighborhood located on the outskirts of San
Antonio. The Tabors built a tree house in the back
yard for their three adolescent children. During the
Labor Day weekend, the Tabor family drove on a
vacation trip to Galveston. While the family was
away, Buster, a 10-year-old youngster who lived in
the neighborhood, trespassed upon the property.
Buster was in the Tabor's backyard when he saw the
tree house which was situated in a tall oak tree.
Buster climbed up the ladder and began playing in
the tree house.

While inside, Buster peered out the window and
saw a large limb with avocados perched above the
tree house. Buster decided to collect a few avoca-
dos to bring home to his mother. When Buster was
unable to reach the avocados, he then climbed on
top of the roof of the tree house in an effort to get
closer to the avocado branch. As Buster was walk-
ing along the roof, he slipped and fell to the
ground. This fall caused Buster to severely fracture
his ankle and leg.

17. In his personal injury action, Crosby will

most likely

18. If Buster's parents assert a tort action against
the Tabors to recover for Buster's injuries, the
plaintiffs will likely

(A)

(B)

(C)

recover, only if the hotel employees
knew of the dangerous condition and
failed to remedy it in a timely manner
recover, because the hotel employees
had not cleaned the entryway
not recover, because Crosby was not a
paying guest of the hotel

(D) not recover, unless the hotel employees
knew the pigeon droppings were there

(A) prevail, because the tree house consti-

tuted an attractive nuisance

(B) not prevail, because Buster's own negli-
gence was the cause of his injury
(C) not prevail, if a child of like age, intelli-

gence, and experience would not have
climbed on top of the roof of the tree
house

(D) not prevail, if Buster recognized the risk

that was involved

possbie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

TORTS

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

A Pennsylvania state statute prohibits the sale of
liquor on Sundays before noontime. Harry Hillcrest
was employed as a clerk at Luciano's Liquor Store
in Center City Philadelphia. At 11:25am on Sunday
morning Harry sold a six pack of Rolling Rock
beer to Bobby Wine, a customer. Harry incorrectly
believed the time to be 12:25pm. In fact, the time
on the clock inside the store was 12:25pm. The pre-
vious night, however, daylight savings time ended
and the clock in the store had not been turned back
when Harry came to work.

Upon leaving the store, Bobby drank all six bottles
of beer and became very intoxicated. While driving
carelessly, Bobby drove through a red light and
struck Regina Regent, a pedestrian, as she was
crossing the street. Regina was seriously injured in
the accident.

19. If Regina asserts a tort action against

Luciano's Liquor Store to recover damages for
her injuries, she will

(A) prevail, because the clerk sold the beer

at 11:25am in violation of the statute

(B) prevail, because the store is vicariously
liable for the tortious conduct of its
employee

(C) not prevail, unless the clerk knew or had

reason to know that Wine would exces-
sively drink the beer and drive in an
intoxicated condition

(D) not prevail, if the store was non-negli-

gent in failing to change the time on the
clock

Esteban parked his BMW convertible on a steep
hill on California Avenue in San Francisco. He then
walked a few blocks to the China Grill to meet a
few friends for lunch. While Esteban was at the
restaurant, his car rolled down the hill and struck
Tiffany as she was walking across the street.
Tiffany suffered a fractured leg in the accident.

Tiffany sued Esteban to recover damages for her
injury. At trial, Tiffany merely introduced evidence
that Esteban parked his car on California Avenue
and the vehicle rolled down the street striking her.
However, Tiffany did not present any evidence
showing negligence on the part of Esteban.

20. At the conclusion of the plaintiff's case-in-

chief, both parties move for a directed verdict.
The court should

grant plaintiff's motion, because it is
more probable than not that defendant
was negligent in allowing his car to roll
down the street
grant the defendant's motion, because
plaintiff did not present any evidence
showing negligence on the part of the
defendant
deny both motions, because under the
circumstances the jury may infer negli-
gence on the part of the defendant
deny the plaintiff's motion, but allow the
defendant to present rebuttal evidence
before ruling on the defendant's motion

TORTS

10

pssibso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

Driver and Passenger were driving to work in the
former's automobile one morning. As they were
traveling at a speed of 20 mph (which was within
the posted speed limit), Passenger suddenly pointed
to an overturned vehicle along the side of the high-
way and said, "Look at that car upside down."
Driver turned to look at the overturned vehicle. As
he was looking toward the side of the road, Driver
failed to see an abandoned vehicle with a flat tire in
the highway about 200 feet in front of his oncom-
ing auto. Seconds later, Driver crashed into the rear
of the abandoned auto and was injured.

22. If Driver asserts a claim against the owner of
the abandoned auto, the most likely result is
that Driver will

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

recover all of his damages, because the
defendant created a dangerous condition
recover only a portion of damages,
because the abandoned auto was in plain
view
recover nothing, because Driver had the
last clear chance to avoid the collision
recover nothing, because Passenger's act
was a supervening cause

Hieroglyphics, a popular paperback bookstore, had
just opened for business in a new and larger facility.
Simon Contracting Company had remodeled the
space to suit their specifications including replas-
tering the walls and ceiling.

One morning shortly after the grand opening,
Melba, the manager, noticed pieces of plaster on
the floor near some shelves where some best sellers
were "On Sale." Melba swept up the plaster on the
floor and called Simon Contracting, demanding that
they immediately make necessary repairs.

Two hours later, Sandy entered the bookstore look-
ing for a recently-released murder mystery. As he
approached the shelves containing the best sellers
on sale and reached for a book, a large piece of
plaster fell on Sandy's head. Sandy had to be hospi-
talized with a concussion.

21. If Sandy sues Hieroglyphics, he will

(A)

(B)

(C)

recover, only if Hieroglyphics acted
unreasonably in leaving popular sale
items in an area of danger
recover, because Sandy is a business
invitee
not recover, because Simon Contracting
Company's acts were the actual and
legal cause of the injuries

(D) not recover, because responsibility for

the construction of the building was
properly delegated to Simon Contracting
Company

pmbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

TORTS

The taxi was being driven by Dawkins who was
the owner-operator of the vehicle. As Dawkins
approached the intersection, she failed to heed
a stop sign, and entered Spectrum Street in the
path of Cunningham's car. Dawkins was injured
in the accident.

While not conceding liability on Cunningham's
part, Cunningham's insurance company paid
Dawkin's medical and hospital bills in the amount
of $20,000. Thereafter, Dawkins brought an action
against Cunningham to recover damages for her
injuries sustained in the accident.

The jury returned a special verdict and held that (1)
Cunningham was guilty of 70 percent and Dawkins
was guilty of 30 percent of the total negligence in
the case; and (2) Dawkins suffered damages in the
amount of $100,000, taking no account of the pay-
ment made by Cunningham's insurance company.
After the verdict was rendered, the court was
advised of the $20,000 paid by Cunningham's
insurance company.

24. Based upon the given facts, the court should
now enter a judgment for Dawkins in the
amount of

(A) $40,000, the proportion of Dawkins'

(B)

damages caused by Cunningham's negli-
gence, less the proportion caused by
Dawkin's negligence
$50,000, the proportion of Dawkins'
damages caused by Cunningham's negli-
gence, less the medical and hospital pay-
ments made by Cunnningham's
insurance company

(C) $70,000, the proportion of Dawkins'

damages caused by Cunningham's negli-
gence, with the medical and hospital
payments being disregarded as coming
from a collateral source

(D) $100„000, because Cunningham's negli-
gence was greater than that of Dawkins

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

While on vacation in Hawaii, John and Andy went
scuba diving in the ocean off the island coast of
Maui. Each of them was equipped with a spear gun
which they planned to use to kill sharks. As they
were swimming, both men saw what appeared to
be a large fin entangled in a nearby coral reef.
Simultaneously, they shot their spear guns at the
projecting wing-like figure. Unknown to either
John or Andy, it was not a fish but another scuba
diver whom they shot at. The victim, Randy, was
struck and slightly wounded by one of the spears.

23. Randy asserts a claim for damages against

John and Andy. At trial, the judge should
instruct the jury to rule

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

in favor of both defendants if no evi-
dence is presented showing who actually
shot the spear that injured Randy
against both defendants jointly unless
one of them proves that he did not shoot
the spear that struck Randy
against each defendant for one-half of
the amount of damages because they
both acted independently and not jointly
against each defendant for one-half of
the amount of damages because they
both shot their spear guns simultane-
ously

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

Cunningham was driving his car along Spectrum
Street in South Philadelphia at 40 mph (the speed
limit being 25 mph). As he approached an intersec-
tion with Palestra Place, a taxi entered from the
Palestra thoroughfare (which was to the right side
of Cunningham's vehicle). The two cars collided.

When Cunningham saw the taxi he was still far
enough from the intersection that, considering
speed and distance, he might have braked in time.
But he failed to brake promptly. Furthermore,
Cunningham's brakes were not operating properly.
Despite the fact that Cunningham was aware that
his brakes were malfunctioning, he failed to have
the brakes repaired.

TORTS

12

plash.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 26 is based on the following fact situation.

Felix Feller was a Cleveland Indians baseball fan
who purchased two tickets for the Indians World
Series game against the Atlanta Braves. Felix con-
tacted his best friend, Wally Wertz, and invited him
to go to the game. Wally, who was a fanatic Indians
fan, eagerly agreed. Felix told Wally that the game
started at 7:00 p.m. and that he would pick him up
at about 5:00 p.m. so they could get there early to
watch batting practice.

They were driving to the game together when Felix
sped up to cross an intersection while the traffic
signal was changing from amber to red. As he
reached the intersection Felix was traveling at 50
mph although the posted speed limit was 25 mph.
Simultaneously, a car driven by Pat Pafko entered
the intersection on red and collided with Felix's
vehicle. Wally suffered a broken pelvis in the colli-
sion. This jurisdiction has adopted the following
"modified" comparative negligence statute:

"A negligent plaintiff is entitled to obtain a recov-
ery provided plaintiff's negligence is not equal to
nor greater than that of the defendant, otherwise no
recovery is permitted."

25. Suppose Wertz brings suit against Pafko to
recover damages for his injury. A jury
returned a special verdict with the following
findings: (1) Felix was 55% negligent in
speeding; (2) Pafko was 45% negligent in
driving through the red light; and (3) Wertz
suffered $100,000 in damages. As a result,
the court should enter a judgment for Wertz
in the amount of

(A) $100,000
$55,000
(B)
(C)
$45,000
(D) Nothing, because Felix was more negli-

gent than Pafko

In the city of Tampa, Maple Street is a local public
thoroughfare, designated as a one-way street for
northbound traffic. Spruce Street is a public thor-
oughfare, designated as a one-way street for east-
bound traffic. Maple and Spruce Streets intersect at
right angles. Visitor, on his first trip to Tampa, got
lost and was driving the wrong way on Maple
Street. Not realizing that Maple Street was a one-
way for northbound traffic, Visitor was traveling in
an southerly direction.

During the same time period, Resident, who was
late for a doctor's appointment, was driving his car
along Spruce Street at an excessive rate of speed.
She was traveling 50 mph which was 20 mph over
the posted speed limit. Both Resident and Visitor
entered the intersection at the same time and col-
lided. The impact caused Resident's car to carom
off the road and crash into a home owned by
Householder. The damage to Householder's home
totaled $25,000. Thereafter, Householder and
Resident reached an agreement whereby Resident
paid Householder $12,500 in damages. According
to their settlement, Householder gave up any claim
she had against Resident, but she could still sue
Visitor for his share of the damages.

26. If Householder now brings suit against Visitor

to recover damages to her home, what is the
maximum recovery, if any, allowable?

(B)

(A) $25,000, since each concurrent tortfea-
sor is jointly and severally liable for the
total amount of damages.
$25,000, since there is no right of con-
tribution among concurrent tortfeasors.
(C) $12,500, since Householder has previ-
ously satisfied part of her claim from
the other concurrent tortfeasor.

(D) Nothing, because Visitor's auto did not

damage Householder's home.

',stelae

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13

TORTS

Question 27 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Candace Candy was a single parent who had a
young daughter named Chloe. Chloe, aged 11, took
ballet lessons at the Westside Ballet Academy. One
Saturday Chloe was trying out for a part in the
Nutcracker Christmas show that Westside annually
performed. Candace drove Chloe to the ballet stu-
dio and parked her car in the Safeway Supermarket
parking lot that adjoined the Westside facility.

Since Westside did not have its own parking lot,
parents often parked at Safeway and walked about
100 feet to the Westside dance studio. Safeway
allowed Westside parents access to the parking lot
with the expectation that they would shop at
supermarket.

When Candace and Chloe hopped out of their car
in the Safeway parking lot, they were immediately
accosted by a thief. He grabbed Candace's pocket-
book and then pushed her to the pavement.

27. If Candace asserts a tort action against

Safeway, she will most likely

(A) prevail, because Candace was an invitee
(B) prevail, if Safeway knew of the likeli-

hood of such danger

(C) not prevail, because Safeway is not

liable for the intentional torts committed
by third persons

(D) not prevail, because Candace was a

licensee

Farmer hired Butch, a high school boy, to help him
bale hay on his farm. Farmer owned 20 acres just
inside the city limits of Springfield. As they were
baling hay one day, Farmer was driving the tractor
while Butch stood behind in the hay cart and col-
lected the bales. Late in the afternoon the skies sud-
denly darkened as a storm approached. Because
lightning was common in the area, Farmer knew
that it was safer to be on lower ground during an
electrical storm.

As the storm drew closer, Farmer continued at a
quickened pace to finish his work. Once the rain
and lightning started to erupt, Farmer stopped his
tractor on the top of a hill. A short while later,
Butch, who was sitting behind the tractor in the hay
wagon, was struck and killed by a bolt of lightning.

28. If Butch's parents, on their son's behalf, assert

a wrongful death action against Farmer, the
defendant will most likely be found

(A)

(B)

liable, because Butch was under his
employ when the accident occurred
liable, because he had reason to know of
the danger involved in stopping the trac-
tor at the top of the hill

(C) not liable, because lightning is an act of

(D) not liable, because Farmer's conduct was

God

not tortious

TORTS

14

pstabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 29 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 30 is based on the following fact situation.

Cal Worthington was the owner of Worthington
Motors, a Honda dealership, located in Long
Beach. To celebrate the 10th Anniversary of his
business, Cal arranged to have a big party at the
dealership facility. He sent out hundreds of invita-
tions and advertised the event in all the local news-
papers. Prior to the party, Roman Candelaria, a
local Long Beach resident, contacted Cal and
offered to put on a free fireworks display at the
party at no cost to Cal. Roman, who had recently
started a new fireworks display business, believed
that the publicity would help promote his services.
Cal agreed to Roman's proposal because he knew
that fireworks were a popular attraction and might
allure more people to the gala.

The party, which was scheduled at 9:00 pm on
Friday night, went off without a hitch. The party
attracted over 200 guests who were entertained by a
roving mariachi band and served cocktails and hot
hors d'oeuvres. During the anniversary celebration,
Roman then set off the fireworks display. One of
the fireworks misfired and struck Griggs, a guest,
who suffered third-degree burns.

30. If Griggs asserts a claim against Cal to

recover damages for his injury, Griggs will
most likely

(A) prevail, because Roman was engaged in

an ultrahazardous activity
(B) prevail, if Roman was negligent
(C) not prevail, because Roman was an inde-

pendent contractor

(D) not prevail, because Griggs assumed the
risk by being present during the fire-
works display

Sally Sales went to Fantasyland, an amusement
park, with her ten year-old son, Soupy. Sally took
Soupy on Montezuma's Revenge, a high speed ride
with a reputation of causing intestinal disorders and
uncontrollable bowel movements. When the ride
started, it began to malfunction due to inadequate
maintenance. As a result, a metal rod broke off and
struck Sally in the face.

As a result of the injury, Sally temporarily lost
vision in her right eye and was required to wear an
eyepatch for one month. Two weeks after the acci-
dent at Fantasyland, Sally was shopping at Home
Depot. She was walking in the lumber section of
the store where a store employee was operating a
forklift. He was driving the forklift negligently and
struck Sally with the machine. Sally did not see the
forklift because her peripheral vision was impaired
by the eyepatch. If Sally had not been wearing the
eyepatch, she would have easily seen the forklift
and avoided the accident. As a result of the forklift
accident, Sally suffered a broken arm.

29. If Sally asserts tort actions against Fantasy-

land and Home Depot to recover damages for
her injuries, she will most likely

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

recover against Fantasyland only for the
temporary loss of vision, and against
Home Depot only for the broken arm
which was caused by the negligence of
its employee
recover against Fantasyland for both the
temporary loss of vision and for the bro-
ken arm which would not have occurred
"but for" the eye injury
recover against Fantasyland only for the
temporary loss of vision, but neither
defendant is liable for the broken arm
because Sally was contributorily negli-
gent in not seeing the forklift
recover against Fantasyland only for the
temporary loss of vision, and recover
50% in damages from each defendant
for the broken arm

pmsble

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

TORTS

Question 31 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 32 is based on the following fact situation.

Pierre, an independent research chemist, was trans-
porting in his car a load of foam rubber from his
home to his laboratory. A freezing rain was falling
and a thin film of ice covered the roads. On his
way, Pierre stopped by the Dow Company to pick
up a quantity of highly flammable petroleum deriv-
atives that he also needed in his work. These were
sold in ordinary glass gallon jugs. Shortly after
putting several jugs in the trunk of his car, Pierre
swerved to avoid hitting a station wagon that was
crossing an intersection at a right angle to him.
The driver of the station wagon, Mrs. Hartman,
had applied the brakes in time to stop under ordi-
nary circumstances, but her wheels had struck an
icy patch and she had skidded into the intersection.
As a result of the swerve, Pierre's car rode up on
the sidewalk and overturned, pinning Andy, a
pedestrian, under the car and causing him multiple
injuries. The jugs in the trunk were broken by the
impact, and the chemicals spilled out and caught
fire. Both Pierre and Andy were severely burned.
Andy died a few hours after being taken to the
hospital.

31. In a claim for wrongful death by Andy's

administrator against Pierre, the most likely
result is that the plaintiff will

(A)

(B)

recover, because Pierre's negligence was
the legal cause of Andy's death
recover, because Pierre would be strictly
liable

(C) not recover, because Mrs. Hartman's

conduct constituted a supervening cause
(D) not recover, because there is no evidence
that Pierre failed to exercise due care

Davis Construction Company is a private corpora-
tion that has conducted large-scale blasting and
excavation projects in the northwestern region of
the United States for many years. Several months
ago, Cody Billings, Davis' chief financial officer,
entered into a contract with the Snake River Land
Management Council to clear 5,000 acres in a
rocky wilderness area called Antelope Flats, near
the base of the Grand Teton mountain range. The
area was to be used as a ski resort.

Davis began the project by moving in its heavy
equipment, cutting down a large section of lodge-
pole pine trees, and, where necessary, blasting the
mountainous terrain to create a level area for the
main ski lodge. Davis exercised reasonable care in
the detonation of all explosives used to conduct the
blasting operations. Since the rural area chosen for
the ski resort was sparsely populated, Davis had no
reason to anticipate any risks to persons outside the
5,000 acre tract.

Powell, a rancher, lived in the nearby town of Jenny
Lake and operated a mink farm that was situated on
the northwest boundary of the proposed ski resort.
The noise and vibrations from Davis' blasting
frightened Powell's mink. The fright, in turn, caused
the adult mink to eat their young. Powell has suf-
fered serious economic loss due to the fact that
one-third of his animals have been killed. He is
asserting a claim for damages against Davis
Construction Company.

32. Powell will

(A) prevail, because Davis is strictly liable
for the harm caused by the blasting

(B) prevail for trespass, because the fright

due to the vibrations caused the mink to
eat their young

(C) not prevail, because strict liability does
not pertain to purely economic loss
(D) not prevail, because the harm to the

mink was not a foreseeable result of the
risk created by the blasting

TORTS

16

,IwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 33 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

Lucy and Lenny Luckenback are married and have
three children, Lonnie, Lynnie and Lucky whose
ages are six, eight and ten. In their backyard, the
Luckenbacks keep a pet gorilla, named Mookie,
who is thoroughly tamed and accustomed to play-
ing with children. Although the Luckenbacks used
the highest degree of care to keep Mookie on their
property, one day the gorilla escaped and
approached a group of youngsters who were play-
ing at a nearby schoolyard. Bertha, the mother of
one of the children, erroneously thought that the
gorilla was about to attack her daughter and rushed
to protect her. In her haste, Bertha stumbled and
fell, breaking her leg.

33. If Bertha asserts a claim against the

Luckenbacks to recover for her injury, the
plaintiff will probably

prevail, because the Luckenbacks are
strictly liable for harm resulting from
the escape of the gorilla
not prevail, because the Luckenbacks
used the highest degree of care to keep
the gorilla on their property
not prevail, because the gorilla was tame
and posed no risk of injuring Bertha's
child
not prevail, because the gorilla was not
responsible for actually causing Bertha's
injury

Leff, an experienced mechanic, was hired by
Warehouse, Inc. to replace a defective ignition
switch on a motorized three wheel forklift, which
the company regularly used at its factory. The fork-
lift had been purchased by Warehouse from
Equipto, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of
heavy duty factory equipment, two years ago.

The ignition switch that Leff was working on was
located near the two rear wheels. After removing
the old defective switch, Leff than attempted to
insert the new ignition switch that he purchased
from Wigeto, Inc., a parts distributor. When the
new ignition switch "popped out" of the socket,
Leff tried to reinsert it. As he did so, the forklift
engine suddenly started and dragged Leff under-
neath the rear axle, injuring him. The new ignition
switch that Leff was installing had been manufac-
tured by Manufacto, Inc. and was specially
designed for Equipto forklift models.

34. If Leff brings a claim against Manufacto
alleging that the new ignition switch was
defective and unreasonably dangerous, Leff
will

recover, if such an accident was foresee-
able and Manufacto failed to warn pur-
chasers of the danger
recover, if Manufacto advertised the
ignition switch as "a safe and effective
starter switch" for such forklift models
not recover, if a reasonably prudent
mechanic would have stopped trying to
reinsert the ignition switch after it had
"popped out" of the socket
not recover, if Leff failed to properly
inspect the ignition switch before
attempting to insert it

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

TORTS

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 36 is based on the following fact situation.

Al Key was a 1986 graduate of the Lake Tahoe
School of Law. For many years Al tried to pass the
Nevada bar exam but was never successful. In a
state of despair, Al turned to alcohol as a panacea
for his depression. For twenty years, Al was a
chronic alcoholic who habitually drank Boodles
gin. It was not uncommon for Al to drink a pint of
Boodles on a daily basis.

In 2006 Al learned that he was dying from cirrhosis
of the liver. Dr. Daiquiri, Al's physician, attributed
the cirrhosis to Al's long and continued consump-
tion of gin. In his terminal condition, Al asserted a
strict products liability action against Gimlets, the
producer of Boodles.

35. At trial, Al presented evidence linking the

cirrhosis to his alcoholism. At the conclusion
of Al's case-in-chief, Gimlets moved for a
directed verdict. The motion will be

granted, because Al's contributory fault
bars recovery
granted, because health risks from long
and continued consumption of alcohol
are common knowledge to the general
public
not granted, if Gimlets failed to ade-
quately warn of the dangers associated
with the consumption of alcohol
not granted, because it can be reasonably
inferred that Al's cirrhosis was caused
by his gin consumption

Robin Ratner purchased a new Land Rover sports
utility vehicle from Greenwich Motors. The Land
Rover had been manufactured by Jaguar LDT. As
Robin was driving home from the dealership, she
stopped at Bowery Savings Bank to cash a check.
While Robin was inside the bank completing her
transaction, she forgot that she had left her car keys
inside the Land Rover.

Tim Tomlin, a vagabond, was walking through the
Bowery parking lot and noticed Robin's spanking
new automobile. While admiring the Land Rover,
he looked inside and saw the keys dangling from
the ignition. Tim immediately hopped inside and
drove off intending to steal the vehicle. Twenty
minutes later Tim was driving the Land Rover when
the steering suddenly malfunctioned. Tim was
unable to control the vehicle as it swerved across
the highway into the path of a car driven by Dee
Dee Decker. Tim and Dee Dee were injured in the
accident. A subsequent investigation determined
that a manufacturing defect caused the steering in
the Land Rover to malfunction.

36. If Tim Tomlin asserts a strict products liability
action against Greenwich Motors, he will
most likely

(A) prevail, if Greenwich failed to inspect
the vehicle before selling it to Robin

(B) prevail, if the vehicle was sold in a

defective condition

(C) not prevail, because Tim was not a fore-
seeable user or consumer of this vehicle
(D) not prevail, because Tim stole the vehi-
cle and was engaged in larcenous mis-
use when the accident occurred

TORTS

18

P111.614.
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 37 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 38 is based on the following fact situation.

Driver wanted to purchase a new Jeep Cherokee
Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) but could not afford
the retail prices being offered by the new car deal-
ers in the area. While reading the newspaper, Driver
saw an advertisement for Auto Auctions Company
(AAC). In the advertisement, AAC claimed that
they were selling late-model cars for substantially
lower prices than those charged by automobile deal-
ers representing manufacturers.

Driver went to the AAC automobile auction and
placed the winning bid on a late-model Jeep
Cherokee. As he was driving the vehicle home at a
high rate of speed, the brakes suddenly failed caus-
ing an accident. The brake failure resulted from a
defectively designed brake mechanism. Driver suf-
fered a broken leg and brought suit against AAC in
strict liability to recover for his injuries.

37. Driver will be unsuccessful in his lawsuit
unless he can prove the following?

AAC failed to inspect the brakes and a
cursory inspection would have disclosed
the defect.
AAC was in the business of selling
automobiles.
Driver's excessive speed was not a legal
cause of the accident.
The jurisdiction treats automobile auc-
tioneers the same as automobile dealers
in such tort actions.

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I and II only.
II and IV only.
I, II and III only.
II, III and IV only.

Prell is a dandruff shampoo manufactured by
Hairbrain Products Company. On Prell's box cover
is a warning label advising consumers to make a
"patch test" before applying. The label states that a
"patch test" is necessary because a small percent-
age of the population may be allergic to the chemi-
cals contained in the product and susceptible to
suffering scalp irritation.

Nikita Popovich, a Russian immigrant, recently
moved to the United States from Moscow. Nikita
cannot read or speak English. Nikita lives with her
cousin in Coney Island. One day Nikita purchased a
bottle of Prell from a Drugs R Us store. She looked
at the label warning but did not understand it. After
throwing away the box cover, she used the shampoo
without making a "patch test". Minutes later she
began experiencing an allergic reaction and scalp
irritation. This was followed by hair loss attributed
to the shampoo.

38. If Nikita brings suit against Hairbrain

Products for strict liability, she will most
likely

(A) win, because she suffered injury from

her use of the product

(B) win, because the manufacturer was
aware that a small percentage of the
population would suffer an allergic reac-
tion to the shampoo
lose, because she didn't read or speak
English
lose, because she assumed the risk by
not making the "patch test"

(C)

(D)

posabin

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

TORTS

Question 39 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 40 is based on the following fact situation.

Suzi Chaplips, on a winter vacation in Colorado,
visited a ski resort owned and operated by Aspen.
After paying $40 for her ski-lift ticket, Suzi entered
the resort and spent the day skiing along Aspen's
intermediate slopes. Suzi, who was an experienced
skier, was making her last downhill run of the after-
noon when it began to snow quite heavily. Noticing
that there were many skiers on the intermediate ski
path, Suzi decided to ski along the outer edge of the
ski trail which bordered along a heavily wooded
area. Hampered by the poor visibility, Suzi struck
an exposed tree root which was concealed by loose
snow and fell, breaking her ankle.

39. Aspen had erected the following sign which
was visible to all skiers entering the resort:
"Welcome to Aspen where we provide you
with the smoothest and safest ski slopes in
Colorado." Suzi, who had read the sign when
she entered the resort, asserts a claim for
damages against Aspen based on negligence.
Aspen contends that Suzi's cause of action is
barred by the defense of assumption of risk.
Judgment for whom?

(A) Suzi, because Aspen advertised its

slopes as being the smoothest and safest

(B) Suzi, because she was an invitee
(C) Aspen, if the resort did not know that
the tree root was on the ski slope
(D) Aspen, because the tree root was a nat-

ural hazard

Grad recently graduated from State College with a
degree in accounting. He applied for a job in the
accounting department of Krandall's Department
Store. As part of the application process Grad was
required to list the names of character references.
Grad listed Prof, one of his college professors, as a
character reference.

Rose Evans, Krandall's employment director,
processed Grad's employment application. She con-
tacted Prof to ask her some questions about Grad's
character. In the course of their conversation, Rose
said to Prof, "If Grad gets the job he will be
responsible for taking the daily receipts, counting
them, entering the totals into the ledgers and then
depositing the receipts in the bank. He will be
working with large sums of money, so we need to
know if he is an honest individual." Prof responded
that she believed Grad to be a very honest person.
Rose then asked, "Has Grad ever been convicted of
any theft crime?" Even though Prof did not know
anything about Grad's background or life outside
the classroom, including whether Grad had ever
been convicted of a crime, she answered,
"Absolutely not. Grad is a very honest person." As
a result of Prof's recommendation, Krandall's hired
Grad to work in their accounting department.

Six months later, Krandall's discovered that Grad
had embezzled $50,000 over the course of his
employment. At Grad's trial for theft, evidence was
introduced that Grad had stolen money from the
campus bookstore while he was a student at State
College and had been convicted of larceny for that
offense. He had returned the money and received a
suspended sentence. Grad was subsequently found
guilty of theft from Krandall's and sentenced to 2
years imprisonment. Krandall's was unable to
recover the embezzled money.

40. If Krandall's asserts a claim against Prof for

deceit, Krandall's will

(A) prevail, because Prof was wrong when

she said that Grad was an honest person

(B) prevail, because Prof was unaware

whether Grad had been convicted of a
crime when she answered Rose's inquiry

(C) not prevail, because Prof's statement

consisted only of opinion

(D) not prevail, because Prof did not inten-

TORTS

20

tionally lie to Rose

pffstbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

41. Disease Care has filed a motion for summary
judgment asserting that the McMartin's law-
suit is groundless and not supported by any
factual evidence. The motion should be

granted, because the children's fears are
unreasonable and cannot be substanti-
ated by scientific data
granted, because Disease Care is making
reasonable use of its property and con-
struction of the clinic does not violate
existing zoning laws
denied, because even though the chil-
dren's belief is unreasonable, McMartin
has demonstrated that he will suffer
injury from the proposed construction
denied, if, and only if, in "balancing the
equities" the court determines that
McMartin's pre-school operation out-
weighs the utility of defendant's enter-
prise

Question 41 is based on the following fact situation.

McMartin owns and operates a pre-school facility
in the city of Baskerville. The children attending
the McMartin pre-school are all three, four and five
years of age. McMartin has been operating his pre-
school in Baskerville for twenty consecutive years.

Recently, McMartin has learned that Disease Care, a
company providing treatment to AIDS patients, pur-
chased the property next to her pre-school. Disease
Care has informed McMartin and other residents in
the community that it plans to construct a treatment
clinic for AIDS patients next to the pre-school.

When the children at McMartin's pre-school
learned that an AIDS clinic was about to be built
next-door, they became hysterical with fear. The
children believed that AIDS was contagious and
they would become infected by germs transmitted
from the clinic. As a result, the parents informed
McMartin that if the clinic was built, they would
have to remove their children from his pre-school.
Clearly, the children's belief was unreasonable and
not supported by relevant scientific data.
Nonetheless, the children could not be dissuaded in
their unfound fear of contracting AIDS.

McMartin realized that if Disease Care went ahead
and constructed the AIDS clinic, he would be
forced to close his pre-school and suffer severe eco-
nomic loss. Consequently, McMartin filed suit
against Disease Care seeking to enjoin construction
of the AIDS clinic. He claimed that the clinic
would constitute a nuisance and substantially inter-
fere with the operation of his pre-school. The con-
struction of the clinic does not violate zoning laws
currently in effect.

pub's

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

TORTS

Question 42 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 43 is based on the following fact situation.

Peter Petsky is the owner of Pet Products Company
which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of a
variety of pet supplies. Peter's company manufac-
tures such products as pet furniture, toys, beds, col-
lars, leashes, cages, vitamins, etc. These items are
distributed to pet stores throughout the United
States and Europe. Since 2000, Pet Products has
conducted its operations from a large factory
located in the town of Bismark. One of Peter's
biggest selling products is a specially manufac-
tured high frequency dog-calling whistles. These
whistles are sold to dog training schools and kennel
divisions of many police departments. Although
these whistles are not audible to people, they are
audible to dogs over considerable distances.

In 2007, Rula Lenska purchased an undeveloped lot
in Bismark. On her property Rula constructed a Pet
Hotel which was used as a boarding kennel for dogs
and cats. This boarding facility was situated about
100 yards from Peter's factory. Unknown to Rula,
high frequency sound waves often emitted from
Peter's factory when dog-calling whistles were
being tested. These sound waves caused Rula's dogs
to howl uncontrollably for many hours during the
day and seriously interfered with the operation of
her business.

42. Rula now brings an action against Peter and

the Pet Products Company to recover damages
for the interference with her business caused
by the high frequency sound that reaches her
kennel. The court should rule in favor of

Peter, because Rula came to the nui-
sance after his factory had already been
in operation for a number of years.
Peter, because Rula's business is abnor-
mally sensitive to harm caused by the
high frequency sound waves
Rula, because the high frequency sound
waves constitute a trespass to Rula's
premises.
Rula, because the high frequency sound
waves have seriously interfered with the
operation of her business.

Hank owned a secondhand goods store. He often
placed merchandise on the sidewalk, sometimes for
short intervals, sometimes from 7:00 a.m. until 6:00
p.m. Pedestrians from time to time stopped and
gathered to look at the merchandise. Fred had
moved into an apartment which was situated imme-
diately above Hank's store. A street-level stairway
entrance was located about twenty feet to the east.
On several occasions, Fred had complained to Hank
about the situation because not only were his view
and peace of mind affected, but his travel on the
sidewalk was made more difficult. Fred owned and
managed a restaurant two blocks to the west of his
apartment and made frequent trips back and forth.
There was a back entrance to his apartment through
a parking lot, but this entrance was about two hun-
dred feet farther in walking distance from his
restaurant. Once Fred complained to the police,
whereupon Hank was arrested under a local ordi-
nance which prohibited the placing of goods or
merchandise on public sidewalks and imposed, as
its sole sanction, a fine for its violation.

One day, the sidewalk in front of Hank's store was
unusally cluttered because he was cleaning and
mopping the floor of his shop. Fred and his fifteen-
year-old son, Steve, saw a bus they wished to take,
and they raced down the stairs and onto the clut-
tered sidewalk in front of Hank's store, Fred in the
lead. While dodging merchandise and people, Fred
fell. Steve tripped over him and suffered a broken
arm. Fred also suffered broken bones and was
unable to attend to his duties for six weeks.

43. If, prior to the day of his personal injuries,

Fred had asserted a claim based on public nui-
sance for injunctive relief against Hank for his
obstruction of the sidewalk in violation of the
ordinance, the defense on which Hank would
have most likely prevailed is that

(B)

(A) Fred consented to the obstruction by
continuing to rent his apartment
the violation of the ordinance was not
unreasonable
the remedy of abatement by self-help
was adequate
there was no claim for special damages

(D)

(C)

TORTS

22

ptnlwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 45 is based on the following fact situation.

Ron made four statements to George about their
friend, Henry, who is a physician. Henry found out
about these statements and filed four separate slan-
der actions against Ron.

44. For which of the following statements must
Henry prove special harm or special damage
in order to recover against Ron

Rusty Rutledge had been a member of the police
force of the town of Calypso for eight years. One
day, while he was sitting at his desk at police head-
quarters preparing an accident investigation report,
police commissioner Jay Ellsworth approached
patrolman Rutledge and said, "Rusty, I'm very dis-
appointed in you. Read this letter I just received."

Rusty unfolded the paper he was handed and read:

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

"George, if I were you, I wouldn't let
Henry go out on a date with your daugh-
ter. He has been known to rape his girl-
friends."
"George, if I were you, I wouldn't let
Henry treat your nephew for stomach
pains. Henry is a quack and doesn't
know how to make a proper diagnosis."
"George, if I were you, I wouldn't let
Henry visit your mother. Henry would
have stabbed his own mother to death
last week, if she hadn't been suddenly
killed in an auto accident."
"George, if I were you, I wouldn't call
Henry for treatment in an emergency.
He's a drunkard, and once he wasn't able
to treat Jimmy because Henry was too
intoxicated."

"Dear Commissioner Ellsworth:

I am a concerned citizen of Calypso and
request that patrolman Rusty Rutledge be
restricted from carrying a weapon to his res-
idence at 1231 Marshall Lane. Mr. Rutledge
has tormented neighbors with foul language,
has displayed a violent temper, has threat-
ened little children and kicked pets. His
conduct is most disgraceful as a human
being and also as a public person.

Sincerely,
Roger Chase"

Rusty immediately jumped up from his chair,
banged on the desk and screamed, "I do NOT have
a violent temper!" He left the room, slamming the
door behind him.

45. In a defamation suit by Rusty against Roger,
Roger will likely point to the fact that:

There was no implied malice in the let-
ter, even though it might technically be
considered slander.
All public employees are public offi-
cials, and therefore Rusty may not
recover any damages.
Law enforcement is a uniquely govern-
mental affair, and police officers have a
substantial responsibility for the safety
and welfare of the citizens.
Since Rusty was not fired from the
police force as result of the letter, there
are no damages he may recover in a
defamation action.

pmabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23

TORTS

Question 46 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 47 is based on the following fact situation.

Shannon Sharp and Elena Cantillo were members
of the freshman class at Vanderbilt University.
Shannon and Elena both went out for the cheerlead-
ing squad. After Shannon beat out Elena for the last
cheerleading position, Elena became very jealous
of Shannon. A short while later, Elena's boyfriend,
Miles Marlow, began dating Shannon. When Elena
learned about Shannon's relationship with Miles,
she boiled with anger.

She immediately telephoned Miles intending to
berate him on his reprehensible conduct. When no
one answered the phone, Elena decided to leave a
message on Miles' answering machine. Whenever
Elena got angry, she instinctively spoke in her
native tongue of Spanish. Elena thus left the follow-
ing message in Spanish on Miles' answering
machine, "Miles, you're a louse. I hope you trans-
mit the gonorrhea virus to Shannon that you gave
me." Although Elena knew that Miles had not
infected her with gonorrhea, nonetheless she
wanted him to worry that he had a venereal disease.

Later that same night, Miles and Shannon returned
to his apartment after going out to dinner. When
they arrived, Miles turned on his answering
machine and played Elena's message. Miles, who
spoke fluent Spanish, understood Elena's message.
Shannon heard the message but didn't understand it
because she didn't know Spanish. When Shannon
asked Miles what Elena had said, Miles lied and
told her that Elena had wished him a "Happy
Birthday".

46. If Miles asserts a defamation action against

Elena, he will most likely

(A) prevail, because he understood the true

meaning of her defamatory statement

(B) prevail, because the statement was over-

heard by Shannon

(C) not prevail, because the message was
communicated to Miles' personal
answering machine and not intended for
outside publication

(D) not prevail, because Shannon didn't

understand the message

Klowner Inc., a company engaged in the business
of legal publications, has its principal corporate
headquarters in the city of Loyola. From 2003 to
2006, Josephina Michaelson was the president and
chief executive officer of Klowner. During
Michaelson's tenure, Klowner lost approximately
$11,000,000. Due to the company's sorrowful per-
formance, the Board of Directors terminated
Michaelson's employment contract in January, 2007
and discharged her.

Michaelson, who taught part-time as a law profes-
sor at Loyola Law School, was well known in the
community and active in civil affairs. Her dismissal
was a newsworthy event and received considerable
publicity on television and in the newpapers.
Following the announcement of Michaelson's termi-
nation, Barry Brothers, a spokesman for the
Klowner Board of Directors, held a news confer-
ence attended by various media reporters. During a
question and answer period, Brothers was asked
why Michaelson had been dismissed. In response to
the question, Brothers said, "That's simple. The
company lost a small fortune because she was a
poor administrator."

47. If Michaelson asserts a claim against Brothers
for damages for defamation, will Michaelson
prevail?

(A) No, because Klowner did, in fact, lose

$11,000,000 during Michaelson's tenure.

(B) No, based on a qualified privilege, if

Brothers' statement at the news confer-
ence was made in the public interest.

(C) Yes, because Brother's statement

reflected adversely on Michaelson's pro-
fessional competence.

(D) Yes, if Brothers acted with malice and

knew that Klowner's losses were not
Michaelson's fault.

TORTS

24

pinata

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 49 is based on the following fact situation.

Olivia Ortiz lived in Miami with her husband and
three children. Olivia was carrying on an illicit love
affair with Reese Reno, a boyfriend, who lived in
Ft. Lauderdale. While her husband and children
were away on a fishing trip, Olivia decided to
spend the weekend with Reese at the Bayshore
Resort and Spa. As Olivia and Reese were passion-
ately making love in their room, a fire broke out in
the main building of the hotel. When the fire
alarms sounded, all the guests hurriedly left their
rooms and converged outside.

The fire department arrived and fought to bring the
conflagration under control. Meanwhile, two
reporters and a photographer from the Miami
Herald newspaper were dispatched to the hotel to
report on the fire. While Olivia and Reese were
standing together in bathrobes outside watching the
fire, the newspaper photographer took their picture
without their knowledge. The next day Olivia and
Reese's picture appeared on the front page of the
Miami Herald.

As a result of her picture appearing in the newspa-
per, Olivia's life has become a living nightmare.
Her husband filed for divorce. Many old friends
have shunned her due to her amoral conduct. The
incident has caused Olivia to suffer extreme humili-
ation and embarrassmant.

48. Olivia now brings suit against the Miami

Herald for the publication of her picture in the
newspaper without her authorization. She will
most likely

(A) prevail, because she didn't give the
newspaper permission to print her
picture.

(B) prevail, because the publication intruded

on her seclusion and solitude

(C) not prevail, because the publication was

newsworthy

(D) not prevail, because the newspaper did
not use the picture in a commercial
context

Jordan Michaels was a famous basketball player for
the Chicago Cyclones. After leading the team to its
third straight national championship, Jordan was
being revered as the "greatest basketball player of
all time." Following the championship game, Jordan
and his wife went to dinner at Gibson's Steakhouse
to celebrate.

They were drinking a bottle of Tattinger champagne
and toasting the team's victory. As Jordan was hold-
ing the bottle of Tattinger champagne in his hand, a
photographer from the Chicago Gazette newspaper
took his picture. The picture of Jordan appeared on
the front page of the Gazette the following day with
the headline: MICHAELS CELEBRATES
CYCLONES' "THREEPEAT" VICTORY!

Mogan David, the owner of Tattinger, saw the pic-
ture in the newspaper and decided to use it in his
advertising campaign. David proceeded to reprint
the picture from the newspaper showing Jordan
holding the bottle of Tattinger. David then utilized
the picture in a variety of advertisements with the
caption, "DO AS JORDAN...DRINK TAT-
TINGER." David did not secure Jordan's permis-
sion to use his picture before publishing the ads.
When Jordan saw his picture in the Tattinger ads,
he became extremely upset. He was especially
embarrassed because he had embarked on a
national campaign against drug and alcohol abuse.

49. If Jordan brings suit against Mogan David for

the unauthorized use of his picture, he will
most likely recover for which of the following
torts?

Negligent Misrepresentation
I.
II. Negligent Infliction of Emotional

Distress

III. Invasion of Right to Privacy

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

III only
I and III
II and III
I, II and III

pIwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

25

TORTS

Question 50 is based on the following fact situation.

Howard Kosale published a book entitled Baseball's
Most Exciting Moments. The book contained a
chapter on Mickey Marvel, a Hall of Fame center-
fielder, who played his major league career with the
New York Yankees. In highlighting Marvel's
exploits, Kosale wrote about the famous 1957
World Series between the New York Yankees and
the Brooklyn Dodgers. In the book Kosale por-
trayed Marvel as having played a decisive role in
the Yankees' winning the 1957 World Series. Kosale
noted that Marvel hit a clutch home run and made a
key catch in the final game of the series. In fact,
Marvel did not even play in the final game of the
1957 World Series because he suffered from a
severe case of shingles.

Kosale knew that Marvel didn't play in the final
game of the series. Moreover, Kosale was aware
that Marvel didn't hit any home runs in the 1957
World Series. However, he included those passages
to enhance the sensationalism and promotion of the
book. After reading Kosale's book, Marvel was
embarrassed and highly offended by the deliber-
ately false story line.

50. If Marvel asserts a claim for damages against
Kosale based on defamation and invasion of
privacy, Marvel will

(A)

(B)

(C)

recover for invasion of privacy only,
because the book falsely portrayed
Marvel's baseball career
recover for defamation only, because
some of the representations of Marvel's
career were known by Kosale to be fic-
tional and were likely to be offensive to
Marvel
recover for both defamation and inva-
sion of privacy

(D) not recover for either defamation or

invasion of privacy, because Marvel is a
public figure

TORTS	

26

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Property. That which is peculiar or proper to  a
that which belongs exclusively to one. In the
sense, an aggregate of rights which are guarante
tested by the government. Fulton Light, Heat &
v. State, 65 Misc.Rep. 263, 121 N.Y.S. 536.
said to extend to every species of valuable right  a
More specifically, ownership; the unrestricted ai
right to a thing; the right to dispose of a thing it

Question 1 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 2 is based on the following fact situation.

Anders conveyed her only parcel of land to Burton
by a duly executed and delivered warranty deed,
which provided:

"To have and to hold the described tract of land in
fee simple, subject to the understanding that within
one year from the date of the instrument said
grantee shall construct and thereafter maintain and
operate on said premises a public health center."

The grantee, Burton, constructed a public health
center on the tract within the time specified and
operated it for five years. At the end of this period,
Burton converted the structure into a senior citi-
zens' recreational facility. It is conceded by all par-
ties in interest that a senior citizens' recreational
facility is not a public health center.

1	

In an appropriate action, Anders seeks a dec-
laration that the change in the use of the facil-
ity has caused the land and structure to revert
to her. In this action, Anders should

win, because the language of the deed
created a determinable fee, which leaves
a possibility of reverter in the grantor
win, because the language of the deed
created a fee subject to condition subse-
quent, which leaves a right of entry or
power of termination in the grantor
lose, because the language of the deed
created only a contractual obligation and
did not provide for retention of property
interest by the grantor
lose, because an equitable charge is
enforceable only in equity

Gilbert was the owner in fee simple of
Meadowlands, a ten-acre tract of unimproved land,
located on the outskirts of the nearby city of
Montclair. In 1988, Gilbert executed a warranty
deed purporting to convey Meadowlands "to
Jagger, his heirs, and assigns, in fee simpleut if 
Jagger or his successors shall use the property for
other than residential purposes during the next 30
years, then the grantor or his successors may re-
enter and resume the former estate." After Jagger
took possession of Meadowlands, he constructed a
single-family dwelling and resided on the property
with his family. In 2003, Jagger and his wife,
Jasper, died in an automobile accident, leaving a
son, Jared, as their sole heir. Jared, who was an
attorney, took sole possession of Meadowlands after
the death of his parents. He then built an addition
on the dwelling which he converted into a law
office. As the only lawyer in the surrounding area,
Jared developed a lucrative law practice out of his
house. One day, Gilbert, who was still alive, was
driving past Meadowlands and noticed that Jared
was operating a law office on the property.
Thereupon, Gilbert demanded that Jared surrender
possession because the nonresidential use meant
that he (Gilbert) once again owned Meadowlands in
fee simple. Jared refused.

2.	

If it is determined that Gilbert was wrong
concerning his statement that he is now the
fee simple owner of Meadowlands, it is
because

(A)

(B)

the limitation on Jagger's fee simple was
effective only during Jagger's lifetime
the attempt to prohibit other than resi-
dential use is an improper restriction on
the fee simple

(C) Gilbert has not yet taken the steps nec-

(D)

essary to enforce his rights
the restrictions violated the Rule Against
Perpetuities and thus were void ab initio

palmate

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

PROPERTY

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

Hernandez owned Casa de Sol, a beautiful twelve-
acre hacienda estate, in San Antonio. Hernandez
was the record title owner in fee simple absolute. In
1997, Hernandez conveyed Casa de Sol to Gomez
for life with remainder to Tampica, Hernandez's
daughter. Gomez took possession and two years
later sold the property to Tavarez for $200,000. The
following year, Tampica died and was survived by
her sole heir, Xavier. Tavarez has now indicated a
desire to sell the property. A dispute has arisen as to
legal title to the property.

4.	

Hernandez, Gomez and Xavier are still alive.
Which of the following best describes the
state of title to Casa de Sol?

(A) Xavier has a fee simple.
(B) Tavarez has a life estate and Hernandez

has a reversion.

(C) Tavarez has a life estate for the life of
Gomez with a remainder in Xavier.

(D) Tavarez has a life estate with a vested
remainder in Xavier subject to
Hernandez's reversionary interest.

Owen owned Greenacre in fee simple. The small
house on Greenacre was occupied with Owen's oral
permission, rent-free, by Able, Owen's son, and
Baker, a college classmate of Able. Able was then
21 years old.

Owen, by properly executed instrument, conveyed
Greenacre to "my beloved son Able, his heirs and
assigns, upon the condition precedent that he earn a
college degree by the time he reaches the age of 30.
If, for any reason, he does not meet this condition,
then Greenacre shall become the sole property of
my beloved daughter, Anna, her heirs and assigns."
At the time of the conveyance, Able and Baker
attended a college located several miles from
Greenacre. Neither had earned a college degree.

One week after the delivery of the deed to Able,
Able recorded the deed and immediately told Baker
that he, Able, was going to begin charging Baker
rent since, "I am now your landlord." There is no
applicable statute.

Able and Baker did not reach agreement, and Able
served the appropriate notice to terminate whatever
tenancy Baker had. Able then sought, in an appro-
priate action, to oust Baker.

3.	 Who should prevail?

(A) Able, because the conveyance from

Owen created a fee simple subject to
divestment in Able.

(B) Able, because Owen's conveyance termi-

nated Baker's tenancy.

(C) Baker, because Owen's permission to

occupy preceded Owen's conveyance to
Able.

(D) Baker, because Baker is a tenant of

Owen not of Able.

PROPERTY

2

pstabP

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

Aged conveyed Farmacre to Young, for life, remain-
der to Infant. On March 1, Young entered into a
written lease conveying Farmacre to Agronomist for
ten years. The annual rent of $4,000 was to be paid
each October 1, from the profits of the agricultural
operations. During the third year of the lease, on
November 15, Young died. There is no applicable
statute in the jurisdiction.

5. What are the rights of Infant and Agronomist?

(A)

(B)

Infant is bound by the lease, but
Agronomist may remain in possession
for seven more years so long as he pays
the annual rent on October 1.
Infant must permit Agronomist to
remain in possession for the remainder
of the year—until February 28—for
which the annual rent has already been
paid, and then may demand possession.
Infant may demand immediate posses-
sion of Farmacre, but must refund a pro-
rated portion of the rent which
Agronomist already paid on October 1.

(9 Infant may demand immediate posses-

sion of Farmacre.

Oland devised Yangacre "to my daughter Ariel, for
life with remainder to such ofAriel's children as
should be living at her death, provided, however,	
)41
that no such child of Ariel shall sell, mortgage or - Irv`
otherwise transfer his or her interest in the property
prior to attaining age 30; and, if any such child of
Ariel shall violate this provision, then upon such
violation his or her interest shall pass to the remain-
ing children of Ariel then living." The will devised
the residuary of Oland's estate to Yolanda, Ariel's
stepmother. Oland died and was survived by Ariel
and by Ariel's three children.

---\

Yolanda brought an action for a declaration of
rights, claiming that the attempted gifts to Oland's
grandchildren were entirely void and that the inter-
ests following the life estate to Ariel passed to
Yolanda absolutely by the residuary clause.

6.	

Assuming that the action was properly
brought with all necessary parties and with a
guardian ad litem appointed to represent the
interests of unborn and infant grandchildren,
the decision should be that

(A)

(B)

(C)

the attempted gifts to grandchildren are
void under the Rule Against Perpetuities
the attempted gifts to grandchildren are
void as unlawful restraints against alien-
ation
the provisions concerning the grandchil-
dren are valid and will be upheld
according to their terms

(D) even if the provisions against sale, mort-
gage or other transfer by the grandchil-
dren are void, the remainders to
grandchildren are otherwise valid and
will be given effect

pesabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

PROPERTY

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 8 is based on the following fact situation.

In 1989, Chamberland was the record owner in fee
simple absolute of Roundacre, a 30 acre tract of
land located in the township of Forum. In 2001,
Chamberland made a conveyance thereof in these
words, "I hereby convey Roundacre to Elgin and
Gale as joint tenants with right of survivorship."

On November 11, 2003, Elgin executed a mortgage
on Roundacre to West to secure a loan. Thereafter,
on January 18, 2004 Elgin died intestate, leaving
Erickson as his only heir at law. At the time of
Elgin's death, the indebtedness had not been paid to
West. The jurisdiction in which Roundacre is
located recognizes a title theory of mortgages.

8.	

In an appropriate action, the court should
determine that title to Roundacre is vested

(A)

in Gale, with the entire interest subject
to the mortgage
(B)
in Gale, free and clear of the mortgage
(C) half in Gale and half in Erickson, with

both subject to the mortgage

(D) half in Gale, free of the mortgage, and

half in Erickson, subject to the mortgage

Garp was the record owner in fee simple absolute
of Blackacre, a 25-acre parcel of land located in
Rosemead. Garp resided in the farmhouse on
Blackacre and used the rest of the land for raising
produce for local sale. Adjoining Blackacre (or
directly across the road from it) was Greenacre, a
15-acre tract. Greenacre was owned by Berl. In
1980, Garp conveyed 10 acres of Blackacre to Berl
by a deed that contained the following provision:

"In the event that Berl obtains a bona fide offer for
the purchase of the 10-acre parcel, which he wishes
to accept, he shall submit such offer to Garp, who
shall have a "right of first refusal" within 30 days
of such submission to purchase said property on
the same terms contained in such offer. The
option shall extend for 25 years and be irieTfect 

In 2002, Berl received a bona fide offer for the
10-acre parcel from Hiltonhead Hotel, Inc. The
hotel chain planned to construct a resort complex
on the property. Berl, who was willing to accept
Hiltonhead's offer, refused to offer the 10 acres to
Garp who was still alive and was the owner of
Blackacre's remaining 15 acres. There is no
applicable statute in the jurisdiction.

7.	

Garp brings an appropriate action to enforce
the option. If the court rules in favor of Berl,
it will be because

(A)

(B)

(C)

the option is unenforceable as an illegal
restraint against alienation
the option is violative of the Rule
Against Perpetuities
the option was not supported by separate
consideration

(D) Garp's proper remedy is at law for

money damages

PROPERTY

4

pssabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 9 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

Gump, Hernandez and lba owned Blackacre, a 100
acre tract of farmland located in Shenandoah, as
joint tenants with right of survivorship. After an
ownership dispute arose among the three parties,
Gump brought an action for partition against
Hernandez and lba. While the suit was pending but
before a final judgment had been rendered, Gump
died in an automobile accident. A dispute now
arises among Hernandez, lba and Gump's heirs as
to their ownership rights in Blackacre.

9.	

In a suit to quiet title to Blackacre with all
parties properly represented, title is in

Hernandez and lba as joint tenants
because no final judgment was rendered
on Gump's partition action before his
death
Hernandez and Iba as tenants in com-
mon because no final judgment was
rendered on Gump's partition action
before his death
Hernandez, Iba and Gump's heirs as
tenants in common because Gump's
partition action survives his death
Hernandez and Iba as joint tenants and
Gump's heirs as tenants in common
because the partition action, though not
finalized, severed the joint tenancy only
with respect to the interest owned by
Gump

Kristofferson is the owner of Seaview, a 30-acre
tract, located in the Malibu hills and overlooking
the Pacific Ocean. Kristofferson, who was 70 years
of age, was divorced and had two children, Bobby
and McGee. Kristofferson, a devoted family man,
wanted to keep the property intact for future gener-
ations of Kristoffersons. As such, he conveyed
Seaview "to Bobby and McGee and their heirs as
joint tenants, not tenants in common." In the deed
of conveyance Kristofferson included a provision
whereby "Bobby and McGee and their heirs
covenant not to partition the property forever."

Thereafter Bobby and McGee took possession of
Seaview. Bobby then married Janis whom McGee
disliked intensely. This marriage caused a great deal
of friction between the brothers who began arguing
about management of the property. Bobby finally
decided to seek a partition of the property so that
he and Janis would not have any future dealings
with McGee. After Bobby brought suit to partition
Seaview, McGee moved for summary judgment
challenging the relief sought.

10. The equity court should rule in favor of

(A) Bobby, because the covenant not to par-

tition is void as violative of the Rule
Against Perpetuities

(B) Bobby, because private action cannot

override judicial authority

(C) McGee, because the covenant not to par-

tition is enforceable and runs with the
land

(D) McGee, because a joint tenancy is not

partitionable

posthe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

PROPERTY

Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

Winterthur is a fifty acre tract of land located in the
chateau country of northern Delaware. The property
is owned by Blackstone and Darrington as tenants
in common. In 2003 Blackstone died and devised
his interest in Winterthur to Culpepper and
Farnsworth. In 2005 Culpepper, by special warranty
deed, conveyed his interest in the property to
Galloway. In 2006 Farnsworth, by gift, transferred
his interest in Winterthur to Galloway. The follow-
ing year, Darrington died and by will which was
duly probated, devised his interest in Winterthur
to Farnsworth.

11. In a suit to quiet title with all parties properly

represented, the court should determine that
Galloway's ownership interest in Winterthur is

(A) nothing
25%
(B)
50%, because Farnsworth's deed to
(C)
Galloway does not convey after-aquired
property

(D) 100%, because Galloway acquired
Farnsworth's after-aquired property
interest in Winterthur

The Miami Marlins is a professional baseball team
that plays its home games at the Fish Bowl. Ricardo
Renteria purchased season tickets to the Marlins
baseball games. Ricardo was an avid fan who
attended every home game. At the start of the sea-
son Hugh Zinger, the Marlins' owner, traded away
all the top players on the team. Consequently, the
Marlins performed pitifully and began losing prac-
tically every game.

Ricardo became disgusted with the Marlins and
blamed Zinger for the team's lousy performance. In
protest, Ricardo began wearing a placard at the Fish
Bowl which read, "BOYCOTT THE
MARLINS...ZING ZINGER." During the games
Ricardo would march around the stadium with his
placard and begin chanting: "Zinger sucks...Zinger
sucks."

As the season progressed, the fans became disgrun-
tled and joined Ricardo in his protests. Soon there-
after, Ricardo received a notice from the Marlins'
management revoking his season tickets. Ricardo
was informed that he would not be allowed to
attend any more Marlins games, but would receive
full reimbursement for all remaining games.

12. If Ricardo brings an appropriate action against

the Marlins challenging the revocation of his
season tickets, he will

(A) win, because he was entitled to express

his rights of free speech

(B) win, because he had paid for the tickets

(C)

(D)

for the whole season
lose, because his license to attend games
was revocable
lose, because obscene speech is not con-
stitutionally protected

PROPERTY

6

psnbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation.

In 1970, Benji was the record owner in fee simple
absolute of Greenacre, a 30-acre parcel of land in
Suburb. Benji lived in a farmhouse on Greenacre
and used the tract to raise produce for local sale.
On a section of Greenacre was a sand pit containing
a large quantity of sand having commercial value.
In 1984, Benji in a written instrument granted
Chard "during his lifetime the right to come onto
Greenacre and take any or all sand which he can
find thereon." Chard was engaged in the business
of selling sand to contractors for road construction
projects.

For the next 20 years, Chard dug and used the sand
from Greenacre. In 2005, however, the state govern-
ment notified Benji that it had decided to take
Greenacre by eminent domain. As a consequence,
Chard will no longer be able to enter Greenacre to
remove sand.

13. Chard was correctly named as one of the par-
ties to the condemnation hearing that was
held. What condemnation award, if anything,
will Chard be entitled to recover?

(A) Nothing, because Chard had a mere

license.

(B) Nothing, because Chard had an equi-

table servitude.

(C) The current value of net income that he
would have received during Benji's life-
time.

(D) The current value of net income he

would have received had there not been
a condemnation.

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

Erickson owned Hillacre, a ten acre tract of land, in
fee simple. Hillacre was located in the township of
Deer Valley. In 1979, Erickson conveyed Hillacre to
The Downhill Development Association "on condi-
tion that a ski lodge and resort area be built thereon
and the land be used solely for skiing purposes and,
in the event that said property is not used as a ski
resort, the property shall revert to myself, the
grantor, my heirs or assigns." Subsequently, a ski
lodge was built and the land was continuously used
as a ski resort for over twenty years.

In 1984, Stein, owner of Grassacre, a property abut-
ting the northeast corner of Hillacre, began to use a
portion of Hillacre in order to gain access to
Grassacre for ingress and egress. He used this
access road openly, visibly and notoriously until
2005. The period of prescription in this particular
jurisdiction was 20 years. In March, 2005, he
decided to sell Grassacre to Grich for the purchase
price of $500,000. Thereupon, Stein and Grich
entered into a written real estate sales contract with
closing set for May 1, 2005.

On April 1, 2005, Downer, the president of The
Downhill Development Association, was
approached by Grich with the request that a written
easement be given over the access road and that an
appropriate instrument be delivered to Grich con-
currently with Grich's closing with Stein. Following
Downer's meeting with Grich, The Downhill
Development Association held a duly announced
meeting and voted unanimously to authorize its
trustees to grant such an easement.

On April 15, 2005, Erickson died. Erickson's sole
descendant and successor in interest was he wife,
Erika. Upon her husband's death, she immediately
notified The Downhill Development Association
that if it granted the easement to Grich, Hillacre
would revert to her. Grich then brought an appropri-
ate action, joining Stein, Erika and The Downhill
Development Association, seeking a declaratory
judgment that Stein has a perpetual easement
appurtenant to Hillacre.

14. In this action, judgment should be in favor of

which of the following parties?

Erika, because Grich could not obtain
rights against The Downhill
Development Association by
prescription.
Erika, because the easement would vio-
late the negative restriction that Erikson
originally sought to impose.
Grich, because Stein had already
obtained an easement by prescription.
Grich, because the language of the con-
veyance to The Downhill Development
Association was too vague to support
any claim by Erika.

pistbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

PROPERTY

Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 16-17 are based on the following fact situation.

Fegen owned two adjacent ten story commercial
buildings in Beverly Hills. The buildings were
respectively known as Trump Towers and Galleria
Plaza. The first floors of both buildings were occu-
pied by various retail establishments. The building's
other floors were rented to tenants and used as
offices. There was an enclosed walkway which con-
nected the second floor of each building. Thus,
shoppers and office workers could walk across the
common walkway and gain access to each building.

While the buildings were being used in this manner,
Fegen sold Trump Towers to Toyota by warranty
deed, which made no mention of any rights con-
cerning the walkway. The walkway continued to be
used by the occupants of both buildings. Thereafter,
the walkway became unsafe as a consequence of
wear and tear.

As a result, Toyota hired a contractor to repair the
walkway. When Fegen saw the contractor removing
the carpeting along the walkway, he demanded that
Toyota discontinue the repair work. After Toyota
refused, Fegen brought an action to enjoin Toyota
from continuing the work.

15. The most likely result will be a decision for

(A) Fegen, because Toyota does not have

rights in the walkway

(B) Fegen, because Toyota's rights in Trump

Towers do not extend to the walkway
(C) Toyota, because Toyota has an easement
in the walkway, and an implied right to
keep the walkway in repair

(D) Toyota, because he has a right to take

whatever action is necessary to protect
himself from possible tort liability from
persons using the walkway

Blackacre and Whiteacre are adjoining tracts of
land located in Fillmore County. In 1993, Bix pur-
chased Blackacre, a 10-acre tract, in fee simple
absolute. Whiteacre, a 20-acre tract situated to the
north of Blackacre, was owned by Wing in fee sim-
ple absolute. Cobb, a remote predecessor of Bix,
had granted to Zorn, a way for egress and ingress
across Blackacre under such terms and circum-
stances that an easement appurtenant to Whiteacre
was created. This right-of-way was executed by
deed and properly recorded. Zorn, however, never
made any actual use of the right-of-way.

In 2006, Wing conveyed Whiteacre to Bix. The next
year, Bix conveyed Whiteacre by deed to Dowd for
a consideration of $250,000, receipt of which was
acknowledged. Neither the Wing-Bix deed nor the
Bix-Dowd deed contained any reference to the
easement for right-of-way. Dowd has now claimed
that she has a right-of-way across Blackacre. Bix,
on the other hand, has informed Dowd that no such
easement exists.

16. Assume for the purpose of this question only

that both Blackacre and Whiteacre abut a pub-
lic highway and that ingress and egress are
afforded Dowd by that highway. In an appro-
priate action by Dowd to determine her right
to use the right-of-way across Blackacre, she
should

(A)

(B)

lose, because the easement was extin-
guished by merger when Bix acquired
Whiteacre from Wing
lose, because the right-of-way was aban-
doned since there never was any actual
use made

(C) win, because Bix had constructive notice

of the easement

(D) win, because Dowd acquired an ease-

ment by implication

PROPERTY

8

possbffs

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17. Assume for the purposes of this question only
that Blackacre abuts a public highway. The
only access to the highway for Whiteacre is
across either Blackacre or Greenacre, another
parcel of land which adjoins Whiteacre from
the north. If Dowd initiates an appropriate
action to determine her right to use the right-
of-way across Blackacre, she should

prevail, because an easement by implica-
tion arose from B ix's conveyance to
Dowd
prevail, because once an easement is
properly recorded, it remains in effect  ad
finem  until expressly released
not prevail, because any easements were
extinguished by merger when Bix
acquired a fee simple in Whiteacre
not prevail, because the deed of con-
veyance from Bix to Dowd failed to
contain any mention of the right-of-way

Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

Aboo is the owner of an abandoned ranch consist-
ing of 4000 acres. He intends to develop the entire
property as a recreational, commercial, and light
industrial area. A corporation will own and operate
the recreational facilities, consisting of an indoor
arena for basketball, ice hockey and related sport-
ing events, and an outdoor amusement park. Stock
in the corporation will be distributed to the owners
of lots in the commercial portions of the subdivi-
sion, but no obligation to issue the stock is to ripen
until all the commercial lots are sold.

Aboo realizes that he must create a scheme of
development that will offer prospective purchasers
a very high order of assurance that several aspects
will be clearly established:

1. There must be no use of land for heavy industrial
or any other purpose which would negatively
affect operation of the recreational facilities.

2. The owners of commercial lots in the subdivision
must have an unambiguous right to participate in
the profits generated by the recreational facili-
ties.

3. Each lot owner must have an unambiguous right
to transfer her lot to a purchaser with all original
benefits.

4. Each commercial lot owner must be obligated to
make annual payments of a pro rata share (based
on the number of lots) of the first five years' pro-
jected annual operating deficit of the recreational
facilities (whether or not such owner desires to
participate in the profits ultimately generated by
said facilities).

18. In the context of all aspects of the scheme,
which of the following will offer the best
chance of implementing the requirement that
each lot owner be obligated to make annual
payments of a pro rata share of the first five
years' projected annual operating deficit of
the recreational facilities?

(A) Covenant.
(B) Easement.
(C) Mortgage.
(D) Personal contractual obligation by each

purchaser.

plisabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

PROPERTY

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation.

19. One of the 100 lots owned by Redford was

sold to Wilson. Verde, who purchased a pas-
sive-solar home from Muir on a lot adjacent
to Wilson's, learned that Wilson intended to
heat his home with a coal-burning furnace,
which would spew coal dust into the sur-
rounding area. Verde brought an appropriate
action against Wilson to enjoin construction
of the home heated by the coal-burning fur-
nace. What will be the probable outcome of
this litigation?

Verde will prevail, because he can
enforce the implied reciprocal servitude
relating to passive-solar heating against
Wilson.
Verde will prevail, because Wilson's use
of a coal-burning furnace may depress
property values in the surrounding area.
Wilson will prevail, because the passive-
solar restriction was not mentioned in
the deed by which he took his property.
Wilson will prevail, because he was
never in privity with Muir.

Wishing to promote energy conservation and a
renewable resource lifestyle, Muir obtained the
appropriate governmental approval to subdivide her
200 acre parcel into 300 half-acre residential lots
surrounding a 50-acre wooded "greenbelt." Muir
recorded a subdivision plat for this project, which
Muir named Greenhome; the plat showed the 300
lots plus an area congruent with the 50-acre green-
belt, labelled on the plat as "City Park."

Muir built 200 passive-solar homes in Greenhome
and sold them to individual purchasers via warranty
deeds each of which referred to the recorded subdi-
vision plat and contained a restriction that "only
single family residences using passive-solar energy
systems as their primary source of heating may be
constructed hereon."

While there were still 100 unsold lots in
Greenhome, Muir sold these remaining properties
and the 50-acre greenbelt to Redford. The Muir-
Redford deed referred to the subdivision plat and
contained the restriction limiting construction to
passive-solar homes. Redford sold the 100 lots as
undeveloped properties to individual purchasers.
During the same period, Redford conveyed the 50-
acre greenbelt to Lukens, in exchange for cancella-
tion of a debt owed by Redford to Lukens. Redford
failed to include in the deeds executed by him any
mention of the subdivision plat or the restriction
limiting construction to passive-solar residences.

Each of the deeds involved in the sale of
Greenhome properties was promptly and properly
recorded.

PROPERTY

10

psnlar

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

20. If the Forest County Board of Supervisors, the

In 1980, Jack Sikma purchased Tall Pines, an
80-acre tract just outside Cedar Rapids in Forest
County. Tall Pines included the family home,
Montecello, an exquisite mansion built in 1929 by
a wealthy industrialist named Nelson Tweed. For
many years, Cedar Rapids had been in the grips of
economic decline. However, in 1988 and 1989
I.B.M., A.T.T. and other large corporations built
plant facilities in the local area.

By the early 2000s, prosperity burst upon Cedar
Rapids. To take advantage of the real estate boom,
Sikma divided Tall Pines into 160 lots. By 2006,
Sikma had sold 90 lots to various individual buyers.
Each deed contained the following provisions:

"It is an express covenant and condition that
the property hereby conveyed shall not be
used for other than single family residences."

In 2007, the Forest County Board of Supervisors
purchased 30 lots within Tall Pines from Sikma.
The Board, which had the power of eminent
domain, planned to construct a new County
Noxious Weed & Rodent Pest Control Office on
the property. The deed of conveyance from Sikma
to the Forest County Board of Supervisors made
no mention of the aforesaid restrictions contained
in the deeds to other Tall Pines' lot owners. The
Sikma-Forest County deed, however, did contain a
provision which stated:

"The grantee hereby covenants for itself, its
successors and assigns that this conveyance
is made in lieu of the exercise of the power of
eminent domain."

Thereafter, Forest County enacted a zoning ordi-
nance whereby the 30 lots were rezoned to permit
the construction of a Noxious Weed & Rodent Pest
Control Office building. When the county started
construction, all the other lot owners in Tall Pines
brought suit to enjoin the building plan or, in the
alternative, to recover damages.

named defendant, prevails on both counts, it
will be because

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

the power of eminent domain is the
equivalent of the power to zone
the purchase of the Tall Pines property
by a public body with the power of emi-
nent domain is an act of inverse con-
demnation
the abrogation of the right to enforce the
restrictive covenant is not a compensable
taking
restrictions on the use of land can be
enforced only against a buyer whose
deed contains the restrictions

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

Landlord owned an apartment which he leased to
Abel for a three-year term beginning December 1,
2005, for a monthly rental of $1,000 to be payable
on the first of each month. After Abel resided in the
apartment for six months, he assigned his interest
in the premises to Baker on June 1, 2006. Baker
paid the rental on the apartment for two months and
then assigned his interest to Carr. Carr took posses-
sion on August 1, 2006 and paid the rental for
August but did not pay the rental for the next three
months of occupancy. Then on December 1, 2006
Carr assigned the premises to Dork who took pos-
session but didn't pay any rental to Landlord during
the period of his occupancy from December 1,
2006 to April 1, 2007.

21. On April 2, 2007, Landlord now brings an

action against Dork to recover the outstanding
rent that is due on the premises. Dork is most
likely liable for

(A) $8,000
(B)
$7,000
(C)
$5,000
(D) $4,000

penis,*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

PROPERTY

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

Tennace leased an apartment in the Armstrong
Building from Layton, who was the landlord. The
parties entered into a written lease agreement for a
term of six years with a monthly rental fee of
$1,500. Tennace resided in the apartment for three
years.

Thereupon, Tennace drafted a written agreement in
which he transferred his "entire interest for two
years" to Smithfield. According to the written
instrument, Smithfield was obligated to pay
Tennace directly $2,000 per month for the term of
his occupancy. For the next six months, Smithfield
paid Tennace $2,000 each month of which Tennace
paid Layton $1,500. During months seven and
eight, Smithfield made his $2,000 payments to
Tennace. However, Tennace did not make any rental
payments to Layton for those two months.

22. After not receiving his rental payments,
Layton went to the apartment and found
Smithfield in possession. Layton then sued
Smithfield for the nonpayment of rent for two
months. The court should rule in favor of

(A) Smithfield, because he made his

monthly rental payments to Tennace
(B) Smithfield, because as a subtenant he is

not obligated to Layton

(C) Layton, because Tennace transferred his

"entire interest" to him

(D) Layton, because there is privity of con-

tract between Layton and Smithfield

Osgood owned a 10-acre parcel of land in Duchess
County. Situated on the land was a two-story farm-
house and barn which Osgood converted into a
three car garage. Osgood entered into a three-year
written lease with Hazelwood. The lease agreement
provided that Hazelwood would be entitled to pos-
session of the farmhouse, barn and ten-acre parcel.
The lease also contained an anti-assignment clause
and a provision prohibiting subletting without the
landlord's written consent.

After taking possession of the property, Hazelwood
entered into the following arrangements:

Hazelwood allowed his cousin, Blackstone, to
park his antique 1957 Ford Thunderbird in the
garage for the sum of $50 per month.

During the summer months Hazelwood permit-
ted his friends to swim and operate motor boats
on a lake that was situated on the land leased
'rom Osgood.

23. Which of the following would be violative of
Hazelwood's leasehold agreement with
Osgood?

I only
II only
(B)
(C)
I and II
(D) Neither I nor II

PROPERTY	

12

pitiable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Widom is the owner of a large two-story office
building in downtown Long Beach. Widom, an
architect, designed and supervised the building's
construction. He and his associate, Weed, occupy
the first floor for their architectural business. In
June 2003, Widom entered into a valid and binding
written lease with Coltrane to rent the second floor
office space for four years at a montly rental of
$5,000. The lease contained a provision wherein
Widom was required to repaint the second floor
premises after two years of occupancy.

On June 1, 2005, Coltrane sent Widom a written
letter requesting the repainting of the second floor
office space. Widom made no reply and failed to
perform the repainting as the lease required. The
cost of repainting Coltrane's office was estimated at
$1,750. On July 1, 2006, Widom has still not
repainted the premises. The following day, Coltrane
moved out, mailed the keys to Widom, and refused
to pay any more rent. The lease was silent as to the
rights and remedies of Coltrane due to Widom's
failure to perform the repainting. There is no
applicable statute in the jurisdiction.

24. In an appropriate action by Widom against
Coltrane for the rent due, Widom will

(A) win, because there was no constructive

eviction

(B) win, because Coltrane had the remedy

(C)

(D)

of self-help
lose, because he cannot maintain an
action for rent while in breach of an
express covenant
lose, because the obligation to pay rent
is dependent on Widom's performance
of his express covenant

Lucia Zarella was a third-year law student at
Stetson. In November, Lucia broke up with her
boyfriend and moved out of his apartment.
Thereupon, Lucia entered into a written lease
with Bobby Buffet to rent a small bungalow in
St. Petersburg for a term of eight months at a
rental of $1,000 to be payable on the first day of
each month.

Lucia occupied the bungalow through the end of
July while she prepared for the Florida Bar Exam.
During the leasehold period, Lucia fully complied
with the terms of the lease and made her monthly
rental payments on schedule. Following the bar
exam at the end of July, Lucia decided to stay on
and continue to occupy the bungalow. She pro-
ceeded to pay Bobby the $1,000 rental for August
and September and marked her checks "August
rental" and "September rental."

On September 15th, Bobby received an offer from a
prospective buyer who is interested in purchasing
the bungalow currently occupied by Lucia. The
buyer has indicated that he is only interested in
consumating the deal if he can move into the bun-
galow immediately.

25. On September 15th Bobby consults with his
attorney and inquires how quickly he can ter-
minate Lucia's tenancy if he gives her notice
that very day. Bobby's attornay should advise
him that such notice properly served on Lucia
on September 15th will terminate her lease-
hold interest on

(A) September 15th
(B) September 30th
(C) October 15th
(D) October 31st

plisabsv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13

PROPERTY

Question 26 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 27 is based on the following fact situation.

Hammer is the owner of a two-bedroom beachfront
cottage in Rancho del Rio. In 2006 Hammer leased
the dwelling to Sanchez with the occupancy period
terminating on March 20, 2007.

On March 10, 2007, Hammer leased the Rancho
Del Rio property to Farnsworth for six months.
According to the written lease agreement, the
tenancy would begin on April 1, 2007 and extend
through September 30, 2007. On April 1st Sanchez
is still in possession and refuses to vacate the
premises despite the fact that his lease had expired.
As a result, Farnsworth was prevented from taking
possession.

26. Unable to take possession, Farnsworth refuses
to pay Hammer the rent for the month of
April. Hammer has instituted a suit against
Farnsworth seeking to enforce their lease
agreement and recover rent for the month of
April. In accordance with relevantn lo-
Saxo case law, which party will most likely

vail?

Hammer, because Farnsworth's only
cause of action is against Sanchez who
is the holdover tenant.
Hammer, because the landlord is under
no obligation to deliver possession of
the premises to the tenant.
Farnsworth, because Hammer cannot
deliver possession at the inception of the
leasehold.
There is a split of authority and the out-
come will depend upon which rule of
law is followed is this jurisdiction.

(

Hardcastle leased a 7,500 square foot store from
Llewelyn, the landlord, for a period of five years.
Tanning to open a hardware business, Hardcastle
renovated the interior. He hired a contractor who
installed overhead lighting and built wooden
shelves that were nailed into the walls. The contrac-
tor also constructed free-standing tables for display-
'ng merchandise. In addition, Hardcastle hired a
builder who constructed a second floor loft that was
structurally attached to the main building. The loft
gave Hardcastle additional store footage to sell
more items and expand his business potential.

At the expiration of the lease, Hardcastle decided to
vacate the premises and remove the improvements
which he made. He began disassembling the loft
and started removing the lighting, shelving and
free standing tables. Llewelyn immediately filed
suit seeking to enjoin Hardcastle from removing
these items.

27. The court will most likely allow Hardcastle to

remove

(A)
(B)
(C)

(D)

everything
everything except the loft
everything except the loft and the light-
ing
the free-standing tables only

PROPERTY

14

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 29 is based on the following fact situation.

Pam and Dora own adjoining lots in the central por-
tion of a city. Each of their lots had an office build-
ing. Dora decided to raze the existing building on
her lot and to erect a building of greater height.
Dora has received all governmental approvals
required to pursue her project.

There is no applicable statute or ordinance (other
than those dealing with various approvals for zon-
ing, building, etc.).

After Dora had torn down the existing building, she
proceeded to excavate deeper. Dora used shoring
that met all local, state, and federal safety regula-
tions, and the shoring was placed in accordance
with those standards.

Pam notified Dora that cracks were developing in
the building situated on Pam's lot. Dora took the
view that any subsidence suffered by Pam was due
to the weight of Pam's building, and correctly
asserted that none would have occurred had Pam's
soil been in its natural state. Dora continued to
excavate. The building on Pam's lot did suffer
extensive damage, requiring the expenditure of
$750,000 to remedy the defects.

28. Which of the following is the best comment
concerning Pam's action to recover damages
from Dora?

(A) Dora is liable, because she removed nec-

essary support for Pam's lot.

(B) Dora cannot be held liable simply upon

proof that support was removed, but may
be held liable if negligence is proved.

(C) Once land is improved with a building,
the owner cannot invoke the common-
law right of lateral support.

(D) Dora's only obligation was to satisfy all

local, state, and federal safety regula-
tions.

Winston owned a 100-acre farm in Salem. For
many years, Winston grew tobacco on a 10-acre
strip located in the northeast section of the prop-
erty. In March, Winston planted his annual tobacco
crop which he usually harvested in early October.
In September, Winston sold his farm to Raleigh
for $100,000. At the time Winston conveyed the
property to Raleigh, the tobacco crop was well
developed and quite mature. When Winston and
Raleigh entered into their land sale agreement,
there was no mention of the status or ownership
of the tobacco crop.

In early October, after Raleigh took possession of
the property, Winston contacted him and requested
permission to harvest and remove the tobacco crop.
Raleigh refused to allow Winston to re-enter the
property.

29. Winston brings suit against Raleigh seeking to

re-enter the property and remove the tobacco
crop which he had planted. Which of the fol-
lowing is correct regarding the respective
rights of the parties?

Winston is entitled to remove the
tobacco crop, but he must pay Raleigh a
reasonable value to enter the property
thus gaining access to the crop.
Winston is entitled to remove the
tobacco crop, and is not required to pay
Raleigh for entering the property thus
gaining access to the crop.
Winston is not entitled to remove the
tobacco crop, and, thus is not entitled to
re-enter the property.
Winston and Raleigh each have a col-
orable title to the tobacco crop, and con-
sequently there should be an equitable
division of the proceeds from the sale of
the crop between both parties.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

PROPERTY

30. Inasmuch as Crystal Stream is still flowing at

a very low level and Carson is continuing to
take water for his personal needs, there is
insufficient water to irrigate Grasslands. As a
consequence, DuVall brings an appropriate
action to declare that his water rights to the
stream are superior to those of Carson. In
addition, DuVall moves to have the full flow
of Crystal Stream passed to him, notwith-
standing the effect it might have on Carson. If
this state follows the doctrine of prior appro-
priation, judgment for whom?

Carson, because as an upstream
landowner, he would have superior
rights to the water than a downstream
owner.
Carson, because domestic use is supe-
rior to and is protected against agricul-
tural use.
DuVall, because he has obtained an
easement by prescription to remove as
much water as he may need.
DuVall, because he has put the water to
a beneficial use prior to Carson's use
and has continuously used the water.

Question 30 is based on the following fact situation.

Carson is the owner of a parcel of land known as
Tall Acres which is situated upon the top of Candy
Rock Mountain. Located below Tall Acres is
Grasslands, a forty acre hillside estate which is
owned by DuVall. Crystal Stream is a non-naviga-
ble watercourse that originates at the top of Candy
Rock mountain and runs all the way down into the
San Vicente Valley. Both Tall Acres and Grasslands
are within the watershed of Crystal Stream.

When DuVall purchased Grasslands in 1976, he
started taking water from Crystal Stream and used
it to irrigate the southern half of his property which
he has used as a farm. Prior to 1976, the southern
half of Grasslands had been cleared and placed in
cultivation, while the northern half remained
wooded and unused except for an occasional hike
or gathering of timber for use as domestic fuel.
DuVall continued this established pattern of use.
Now (January 2007), he is still taking water from
Crystal Stream and using it to irrigate the southern
half of Grasslands.

In 2005, Carson built a home on Tall Acres and
started taking water from Crystal Stream for
domestic purposes. During that year there was
heavy rainfall, and this caused Crystal Stream to
run down the mountain to a high water level. The
next year, however, there was a drought. As a result,
Crystal Stream flowed at a very low level.
Consequently, there was only enough water to irri-
gate DuVall's farmland or, in the alternative, to sup-
ply all of Carson's domestic water needs and
one-quarter of DuVall's irrigation requirements.
Candy Rock Mountain is located in a jurisdiction
where the period of prescription is fifteen years.

PROPERTY

16

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 31 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 32 is based on the following fact situation.

Haddox and Virdon owned adjoining lots in the city
of Pottstown. Haddox constructed a house on his lot
and resided there with his wife and three children.
Virdon resided in Lancaster which was located 400
miles northwest of Pottstown. In 1986 Haddox built
a tennis court in the backyard of his lot. Unknown
to Haddox, the tennis court extended three feet onto
Virdon's lot. Virdon, who purchased her lot in
Pottstown in 1984 for investment purposes, had no
knowledge of the encroachment until 2007. In that
year, she returned to Pottstown for the first time
since 1984. When she inspected her lot, Virdon
ascertained that Haddox's tennis court extended
beyond the property line. The statutory period for
both adverse possession and prescriptive easements
is twenty years.

32. If Virdon brings an action against Haddox

alleging encroachment, the decision should be
for

(A) Virdon, since Haddox was unaware that

his possession was adverse

(B) Virdon, because Haddox has failed to

exercise any acts of dominion that would
exclude Virdon from the three-foot strip

(C) Haddox, because his possession was

hostile

(D) Haddox, because Virdon's conduct mani-
fests an intent to abandon any claim she
might have had to an exclusive right in
the three-foot strip

Younger is the fee simple owner of Hedgewood, a
20-acre tract of land, which is located in Oshkosh.
Younger inherited the property from his father but
didn't reside there. Younger lived in Key West,
Florida, where he owned a scuba diving business.

In 1995, Larson went into possession of
Hedgewood and lived there continuously for eight
years. During that period he held himself to be the
rightful owner of the property. His possession was
open, notorious, and exclusive. In 2003, Younger
visited Hedgewood and encountered Larson on the
property. Younger agreed to allow Larson to con-
tinue.114;LaCCPCCirin tinder a leasehold arrangement.
Younger proceeded to lease Hedgewood to Larson
for a two-year term at a rental fee of $2,000 per
month. The period of adverse possession in this
jurisdiction is 10 years.

Larson continued to reside on Hedgewood under
the terms of the lease agreement. When the two-
year lease expired in 2005, Larson claimed owner-
ship by adverse possession. He was in continuous
possession of Hedgewood for a period of ten years
with the prior eight years coupled with the two
years occupancy under the lease. Younger sought to
oust Larson from the property but Larson has
refused to vacate.

31. In an appropriate action to quiet title to

Hedgewood and resolve the conflicting own-
ership claims of Larson and Younger, the
court should rule in favor of

Larson, because he has been in continu-
ous possession of Hedgewood for the
statutory period
Larson, because his adverse possession
for the first eight years can be "tacked"
to the two years of the lease
Younger, because the lease agreement
presupposes that Larson's use was no
longer adverse
Younger, unless Larson paid taxes for all
ten years

pin1w

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

PROPERTY

Question 33 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

Mays owns Whiteacre, a 10-acre tract used for
agricultural purposes, in fee simple. On Whiteacre,
Mays maintains a dwelling house for himself and
his family. Mantle is the fee simple owner of
Blackacre, a 5-acre tract, which abuts Whiteacre.
In 1989 Mays began to erect a concrete wall along
the boundary line appurtenant to Blackacre. After
Mays started to build the wall, Mantle informed
him that he believed the wall was protruding onto
his property. Mays informed Mantle that he paid
$500 to have the boundary line surveyed. Mays
said that the surveyor indicated that the wall did
not encroach on Blackacre. Mantle accepted Mays'
assurances and in 2005 conveyed Blackacre to
Snider by warranty deed.

After Snider entered into possession of Blackacre,
he had the boundary line surveyed. The survey
conclusively showed that the concrete wall
extended two feet onto Blackacre. Although the
encroachment does not interfere with Snider's use
of Blackacre, he nevertheless demanded that Mays
remove the wall. Upon Mays' refusal, Snider
brought an appropriate action to have the wall
removed. The statutory period for adverse posses-
sion in the jurisdiction is 15 years.

34. The most likely result is that

(A) Mays must remove the wall at his own

expense

(B) Mays must remove the wall but at

Snider's expense

(C) Mays may leave the wall without being
liable to Snider for money damages
(D) Mays may leave the wall but he will be
liable to Snider for money damages

Arthur and Celia, brother and sister, both of legal
age, inherited Goodacre, their childhood home,
from their father. They thereby became tenants
in common.

Goodacre had never been used as anything except a
residence. Arthur had been residing on Goodacre
with his father at the time his father died. Celia had
been residing in a distant city. After their father's
funeral, Arthur continued to live on Goodacre, but
Celia returned to her own residence.

There was no discussion between Arthur and Celia
concerning their common ownership, nor had there
ever been any administration of their father's estate.
Arthur paid all taxes, insurance, and other carrying
charges on Goodacre. He paid no rent or other
compensation to Celia, nor did Celia request any
such payment.

Thirty years later, a series of disputes arose
between Arthur and Celia for the first time con-
cerning their respective rights to Goodacre. The
jurisdiction where the land is located recognizes the
usual common-law types of cotenancies, and there
is no applicable legislation on the subject.

33. If Arthur claims the entire title to Goodacre in

fee simple and brings an action against Celia
to quiet title in himself, and if the state where
the land is located has an ordinary 20-year
adverse possession statute, the decision
should be for

(A) Arthur, because during the past 30 years

Arthur has exercised the type of occu-
pancy ordinarily considered sufficient to
satisfy the adverse possession require-
ments

(B) Arthur, because the acts of the parties
indicate Celia acquiesced to Arthur's
right of ownership

(C) Celia, because there is no evidence that
Arthur has performed sufficient acts to
constitute her ouster

(D) Celia, because one cotenant cannot
acquire title by adverse possession
against another

PROPERTY

18

pmebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 36 is based on the following fact situation.

Taylor and Scott, an unmarried couple, purchased a
condominium as tenants in common and lived in
the condominium for three years. Subsequently,
they made a verbal agreement that, on the death of
either of them, the survivor would own the entire
condominium, and, as a result, they decided they
did not need wills.

Two years later, Taylor and Scott were involved in
the same automobile accident. Taylor was killed
immediately. Scott died one week later. Both died
intestate. Taylor's sole heir is her brother, Mark.
Scott's sole heir is his mother, Martha. Mark
claimed one-half of the condominium, and Martha
claimed all of it. The jurisdiction has no applicable
statute except for the Statute of Frauds, nor does it
recognize common-law marriages.

36. In an appropriate action by Martha claiming

the entire ownership of the condominium, the
court will find that

Martha owns the entire interest because
Taylor and Scott did not make wills in
reliance upon their oral agreement
Martha owns the entire interest because
she is entitled to reformation of the deed
to reflect the verbal agreement
Mark and Martha each own an undi-
vided one-half interest because Taylor
and Scott each died as the result of the
same accident
Mark and Martha each own an undi-
vided one-half interest because the
Statute of Frauds applies

Abdul owned Blackacre in fee simple. Blackacre
was a lot 100 feet wide and 375 feet long. The front
100 feet of Blackacre was subject to an easement
for street purposes and not usable by the owner as
long as Broad Street was used over such area.

Broad Street was 100 feet wide and the northeast
line of Blackacre formed the center line of Broad
Street for a distance of 100 feet. The long sides of
Blackacre extended southeast and northwest and
were perpendicular to Broad Street which extended
northeast and southwest.

Abdul executed a deed to Branca purporting to con-
vey a section of Blackacre. The deed contained the
following language:

"I, Abdul, hereby grant to Branca the follow-
ing described property to wit: Beginning at a
steel stake in the northeast side line of Broad
Street; thence north at a 90 degree angle west
200 feet; thence south at a 90 degree angle
west 50 feet; thence south at a 90 degree
angle east 200 feet; thence north at a 90
degree angle west 50 feet."

After receiving this instrument, Branca believed
that the deed failed to adequately describe the land
to be conveyed. He now seeks your advice as to
whether the deed instrument is sufficient to pass
title to Blackacre.

35. You should advise Branca as to the following:

The deed instrument does adequately
describe Blackacre and is sufficient to
pass title to the property.
The second course is in error, and if fol-
lowed as indicated there will be no land
enclosed and the deed will fail for indef-
initeness.
The third course is in error, and if fol-
lowed as indicated there will be no land
enclosed and the deed will fail for indef-
initeness.
The fourth course is in error, and if fol-
lowed as indicated there will be no land
enclosed and the deed will fail for indef-
initeness.

ptnlwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

PROPERTY

37. After receiving Dilworth's check and letter,
Mann now has second thoughts about going
through with the sale. He is so unsure of him-
self that he asks you for legal advice regard-
ing his options. As Mann's attorney, which of
the following is correct legal advice which
you should give him?

I. "By selling his stock portfolio, Dilworth

reasonably and foreseeably relied on your
oral promise to sell. As a result, the agree-
ment is specifically enforceable against
you."

II. "By mailing the certified check for the
agreed purchase price, Dilworth com-
pletely performed his side of the bargain.
As a result, the agreement is specifically
enforceable against you."

III. "By returning Dilworth's check immedi-
ately, the agreement is unenforceable, but
remember, don't put anything about the
matter in writing."

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I only.
II only.
III only.
I and II only.

Question 37 is based on the following fact situation.

In 1990, Rich Mann owned Towering Pines, a
forty acre tract fifteen-miles outside of Montpelier
in Vermont County. Towering Pines included the
Mann family home, called Casa Escobar, a decay-
ing 18th century mansion complete with swimming
pool and a second smaller house which was once
occupied by tenants who farmed Towering Pines.
The second house, however, had long been
vacant as the result of the economic decay of
Vermont County.

Prosperity burst upon Montpelier in 1991. Mann,
hoping to make some money, decided to break up
Towering Pines into one-acre lots and offer them
for sale. At first, demand was not strong, but Mann
managed to sell ten one-acre lots in 1991 and 1992
at an average price of $10,000 per acre.

By 1997, however, Mann had sold off thirty one-
acre lots, using an additional six acres for roads.
Mann retained only a four-acre tract which included
Casa Escobar and the former tenant's house. Early
in 1998, Mann received an irresistible offer from
Damon Dilworth for Casa Escobar. Dilworth, who
wanted to convert the aging mansion into a luxury
hotel, offered to pay $400,000 for Casa Escobar.
Although Casa Escobar had great sentimental value
to Mann, he reluctantly accepted Dilworth's offer.

In an ensuing oral agreement, Dilworth promised to
buy and Mann promised to sell Casa Escobar for
$400,000. Their agreement made no mention of a
specific closing date, financing, or deed descrip-
tion. Shortly thereafter, Dilworth sold his entire
stock portfolio for $450,000 and deposited the
proceeds in his money market account. He then
mailed Mann a certified check for $400,000 and
enclosed a letter stating that the check was to be
applied for the purchase price of Casa Escobar, as
per their oral agreement.

PROPERTY

20

posabof

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 38 is based on the following fact situation.

Daisy Dyson, a seventy-eight-year-old widow,
owned two properties in the state of New London.
She held record title to an exquisite three-story
Victorian home in the city of Portsmith and a ski
chalet in the mountain resort of Alta. Daisy exe-
cuted a warranty deed purporting to convey the
chalet to "my sister, Bessie, and my brother,
Sylvester, as joint tenants with right of survivor-
ship." The language in the deed instrument was suf-
ficient to create a joint tenancy, not a tenancy in
common, in this jurisdiction.

Before embarking on a vacation cruise to Europe,
Daisy mailed the deed to Bessie. Along with the
deed, Daisy attached the following note: "As you
know, I've always wanted you and Sylvester to have
my ski chalet. Enjoy yourselves while in Alta."
While the deed is in the mail, Bessie died intestate
after suffering a heart attack. She was survived by
her son, Blake, who was the sole heir. Thereafter,
Daisy left on her European cruise. While vacation-
ing in the Mediterranean, she had a stroke and died
intestate. Daisy's only surviving heir was her
daughter, Dottie. Unknown to Daisy, the envelope
containing the deed and note was returned to her
Portsmith home by the post office and stamped,
"Addressee Deceased."

38. In an appropriate action, the court should

determine that title to the ski chalet is held by

(A) Dottie only
(B) Sylvester only
(C) Blake only
(D) Dottie and Blake

Question 39 is based on the following fact situation.

Although Croesus, an attorney, had a lucrative
estate planning and probate practice, he was in
financial difficulties due to his compulsive gam-
bling. In order to pay off illegal gambling debts for
which default meant possible death, Croesus pre-
pared a deed so that it appeared that a client,
Osaka, was conveying Distantacre to Croesus.
Croesus then forged the signature of Osaka and the
acknowledgement of the notary, and caused the
deed to be recorded in the appropriate county

recorder's office in the State of Distant. Croesus
then offered Distantacre for sale to another client,
Midas, a young doctor who had come to Croesus
for investment advice. Midas, who knew nothing of
the forgery, agreed to purchase Distantacre for its
market value, but insisted that Croesus convey
insurable title. Midas obtained an abstract of title
and title insurance from Titleco, which had exam-
ined the relevant public records and did not detect
the forged nature of the Osaka-Croesus deed. Midas
obtained a warranty deed to Distantacre from
Croesus and promptly recorded it.

At the same time Croesus was forging his deed to
Distantacre, Osaka was trying to convince his
niece, Larsen, to remain in college rather than drop
out to pursue her singing career full-time. Osaka
executed a warranty deed conveying Distantacre to
Larsen. He showed her the deed and then placed it
in his office safe, telling Larsen, "When you gradu-
ate from college, Distantacre will be yours, to sell
to finance your singing career or for whatever other
purpose you wish."

Midas soon afterward visited the State of Distant to
attend a medical convention, and when he contacted
a local realtor to determine whether Distantacre had
appreciated in value, learned that Osaka's numerous
land holdings in the area were well known to the
business community, and that no information
regarding any sale of Distantacre had been
announced. Midas immediately brought an appro-
priate action to quiet title to Distantacre. The
recording act in the State of Distant provides that a
conveyance of real property is void as against any
subsequent purchaser in good faith and for value
whose conveyance is first recorded.

39. Assuming that all interested parties are joined

in the action, in whom should title to
Distantacre be certified?

Titleco, if it is forced to compensate
Midas by paying him an amount equal
to the purchase price of Distantacre.
Osaka, because the forged deed by
which Croesus purported to take
Distantacre is null and void.
Midas, because he is a subsequent pur-
chaser without notice who first
recorded.
Larsen, because she is a successor in
interest to Osaka.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

PROPERTY

Question 40 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 41 is based on the following fact situation.

On September 20, Selig agreed in a written contract
to sell his Riverside Resort to Bracero for
$500,000. The contract provided that the transaction
was to close on December 20. The Riverside Resort
consisted of a six room hotel with a large patio area
facing the river. On December 1, after three weeks
of heavy rain, the river flooded, severely damaging
the resort. Selig had allowed his insurance to lapse
because of the pending sale, and Bracero had
undertaken no insurance as to the Resort. When
Bracero learned of the damage to the Resort, he
refused to proceed with the sale transaction. Selig
sought specific performance.

40. If Bracero prevails in this action, it will be

because

(A) Selig allowed his insurance to lapse.
Selig remained in possession of the
(B)
Resort.

(C) The doctrine of equitable conversion

applies.

(D) The trade fixtures doctrine applies.

On July 1, Vendor and Vendee entered into a
written real estate sales agreement in which Vendor
agreed to sell Greenview, a 100 acre parcel, to
Vendee for the purchase price of $500,000. The
sales agreement stipulated that closing was set for
September 15 "or anytime before."

On August 1, the state government instituted a con-
demnation suit on the Greenview property. The
state Department of Transportation planned to con-
struct a new highway over Greenview. On
September 1, the condemnation was finalized and
Vendor received $550,000 from the state govern-
ment for the "taking" or acquisition of Greenview.
When Vendee learned of the condemnation, he con-
tacted Vendor and claimed that he was entitled to a
share of the condemnation award. Vendor thereupon
deposited $500,000 in his own personal bank
account and deposited $50,000 into an escrow
account pending resolution of the dispute.

41. Is Vendee entitled to share in the condemna-

tion award?

(A) Yes, because Vendee owned equitable

title to the property based upon the doc-
trine of equitable conversion.

(B) Yes, because under the terms of the sales

agreement Vendee had the legal right to
close before the date of condemnation.
(C) No, because Vendor owned legal title to
the property at the time of the condem-
nation.

(D) No, because the risk of loss was on the

Vendee.

PROPERTY

22

pssibir

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 42 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 43 is based on the following fact situation.

Aparicio owned a 10-acre tract of undeveloped land
known as Okeefenokeeacre. The property was
located in southern Florida and consisted mostly of
swampland and marshes. In March, 2007, Aparicio
contracted to sell the property to Fox for the pur-
chase price of $25,000. Before the date set for clos-
ing of escrow, Fox had the property surveyed and
discovered that at least 60% of Okeefenokeeacre
was regulated by the Florida Wetlands Regulatory
Act.

According to relevant provisions of the Wetlands
statute, no structures of any kind could be con-
structed on the swampland portion of the property.
Moreover, the state regulatory act restricted devel-
opment on the adjoining non-swampland section by
prohibiting construction of any commercial struc-
tures. Before entering into the land sale contract,
Fox had orally made known to Aparicio that he
planned to construct a resort hotel on the property.
After being apprised of the situation, Fox refused to
purchase Okeefenokeeacre.

42. If Aparicio brings suit for specific perfor-

mance, judgment for whom?

(A) Fox, because there was a failure of

consideration.

(B) Fox, because Aparicio's silence consti-

tuted a constructive warranty.

(C) Aparicio, because Fox's intended use is

immaterial.

(D) Aparicio, because Fox's defense is

barred by the Statute of Frauds.

Oatbran executed a written agreement with
Periodontal for the sale of Colonacre which was to
be transferred "free of all easements, covenants,
restrictions or other encumbrances." After the
signing of the contract, but before the time set for
closing, Oatbran discovered a tax lien on the
property in the amount of $15,000. Lacking the
cash to pay off the lien, Oatbran instructed the
escrow holder which the parties had selected to use
$15,000 of the purchase price to be deposited into
escrow by Periodontal to pay off the tax lien before
releasing any of the proceeds of the sale from
escrow. Oatbran also deposited into escrow a war-
ranty deed to Colonacre in favor of Periodontal.

When Periodontal learned of the existence of the
tax lien, and of Oatbran's instructions to the escrow
holder, he canceled the escrow and informed
Oatbran that he refused to proceed with the transac-
tion. Oatbran brought an immediate action for
specific performance to compel Periodontal to
deposit the $500,000 into escrow and to accept the
warranty deed.

43. Which of the following is the strongest

argument for granting specific performance
to Oatbran?

The tax lien follows the proceeds of sale
and is extinguished as to Colonacre at
the closing of escrow.
Title has already passed to Periodontal
under the doctrine of equitable conver-
sion, and the only issue is how the tax
lien is to be satisfied.
Oatbran has not violated any provision
of the contract.
In a land sale contract, the seller may
earmark a portion of the proceeds in
escrow to remove an encumbrance on
the property being conveyed.

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23

PROPERTY


Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 45 is based on the following fact situation.

The state of Runnymede has the following record-
ing statute in effect:

The state of Susquehanna has the following record-
ing statute in effect:

"No conveyance is good against a subsequent
purchaser for a valuable consideration and
without notice, unless the same be recorded
prior to subsequent purchase."

"An unrecorded conveyance or other instru-
ment is invalid as against a subsequent bona
fide purchaser (creditor or mortgagee) for
value and without notice."

Lau is the owner in fee simple of Blackacre, a 20-
acre tract of unimproved land, situated in Madison,
Runnymede. On May 1, Lau sold Blackacre to Eto
for the purchase price of $40,000 under a quitclaim
deed. Eto did not record the deed. On May 5, Lau
died leaving a valid will by which he devised
Blackacre to his son, Landon. After the administra-
tion of Lau's estate, Landon, in consideration of the
sum of $75,000, conveyed Blackacre to Fong by
warranty deed. This transaction took place August
1. When Fong acquired title to Blackacre, he had no
actual knowledge of Eto's deed (which was still
unrecorded). On August 10, Eto recorded his deed
to Blackacre. Fong did not record the deed he
received from Landon until August 15.

44. In an appropriate action to quiet title to

Blackacre, in which all interested parties have
been joined, title will be found to be in

(A) Eto, because his deed preceded Fong's

(B) Eto, because his deed was recorded prior

deed

to Fong's deed

recording statute

(C) Fong because he is protected by the

(D) Fong because he took title by warranty

deed and Eto took title by quitclaim
deed

Bergman is the owner of Berkshire, a 10-acre tract
of farmland, located in southeastern Susquehanna.
In 1990 Bergman drew up a will bequeathing
Berkshire to his daughter, Dixie. In 2000, Bergman
conveyed Berkshire to Emerson for $10 considera-
tion. Emerson received a warranty deed from
Bergman which was duly recorded. In 2001,
Bergman died. During the probate of the will, Dixie
learned about the devise and now contests owner-
ship of Berkshire.

45. In a suit to quiet title to Berkshire, the court

should rule in favor of

(A) Dixie, because the will was executed
prior to the deed of conveyance
(B) Dixie, because $10 consideration is
insufficient to qualify Emerson as a
bona fide purchaser

(C) Emerson, because he paid value and

acted in good faith

(D) Emerson, because he paid value, acted
in good faith and recorded his deed

PROPERTY

24

postbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Questions 46-47 are based on the following fact situation.

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

In 2003, Baker, being owner in fee simple of
Greenacre conveyed the property by warranty deed
to Clark. In 2005, Clark gave Evans a mortgage on
Greenacre to secure a loan from Evans to Clark in
the amount of $50,000. The mortgage was recorded
immediately. Two years later, Clark conveyed
Greenacre to Davis by quitclaim deed. According to
the deed instrument, Davis "assumed the mort-
gage." Clark then defaulted on the mortgage and
Evans brought an in personam action against Davis
to recover the amount of the mortgage due.

46. Evans will most likely

(A) prevail, because Davis acquired title to

Greenacre by quitclaim deed

(B) prevail, because Evans was a third-party
beneficiary under the conveyance
between Clark and Davis

(C) not prevail, because the conveyance

between Clark and Davis did not effec-
tuate a delegation of duties

(D) not prevail, unless the land was subject

to the mortgage

47. Assume for the purposes of this question only
that Clark's quitclaim deed to Davis made no
reference to the mortgage. Clark then
defaulted on the mortgage and Evans brought
an in personam action against Davis to
recover the amount of the mortgage due. The
mortgagee will probably

(A)

(B)

succeed, because an implied delegation
of duties resulted from Clark's con-
veyance to Davis
succeed, because Evans was a third-
party beneficiary under the conveyance
between Clark and Davis

(C) not succeed, because Davis did not

promise to pay the mortgage debt
(D) not succeed, unless Davis had construc-
tive notice of the existence of the mort-
gage

Jim Ray Hart was a real estate investor in San
Jacinto. He typically purchased dilapidated buildings
in low income neighborhoods at discount prices.
After renovating these buildings, Jim Ray would sell
them at substantially higher rates and make signifi-
cant profits. In 2004, Jim Ray acquired Alcatraz
Towers, a ten-story office building located in the
Pacific Heights section of town. The building had
been seriously damaged in the 1989 earthquake and
been vacant for a number of years.

Jim Ray purchased the building from Felipe Alou for
$850,000. According to the real estate agreement,
Jim Ray paid Alou $500,000 in cash and assumed an
existing $350,000 mortgage which Magnin
Mortgage Company, the mortgagee, had recorded in
1986. To finance the purchase of Alcatraz Towers,
Jim Ray borrowed $500,000 from Nob Hill Bank. As
consideration for the loan, Jim Ray executed a pur-
chase money mortgage in favor of Nob Hill. This
mortgage was properly recorded in July, 2004.

Jim Ray proceeded to renovate the building and in
early 2005 started leasing office space in Alcatraz
Towers. Due to a real estate glut in the downtown
area, Jim Ray found it difficult to find tenants for
his building. With only a 20% occupancy rate, Jim
Ray was unable to make his mortgage payments
and in May, 2005 defaulted on both mortgages.
Nob Hill then initiated a foreclosure proceeding
against Jim Ray and Magnin Mortgage Company as
joint defendants. Magnin filed a cross-complaint
alleging that its mortgage was a first mortgage on
Alcatraz Towers and should be given priority over
Nob Hill's security interest.

This jurisdiction has the following recording statute
in effect: "An unrecorded conveyance or other
instrument is invalid as against a subsequent bona
fide purchaser (creditor or mortgagee) for value
and without notice who records first."

48. The court should enter a judgment that will

grant the relief sought by

(A) Magnin Mortgage Company, because its

mortgage was recorded earlier in time
(B) Magnin Mortgage Company, because

Jim Ray assumed the existing mortgage
at the time he purchased the property
from Alou

(C) Nob Hill Bank, unless it is charged with
record notice of Magnin's mortgage
(D) Nob Hill Bank, because a purchase

money mortgage takes priority over the
recording statute

possbos

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

25

PROPERTY

Question 49 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 50 is based on the following fact situation.

Leonard Lemke owned River Oaks, a 40-acre tract
of farmland, located in Augusta County. During the
1990s when property values skyrocketed in
Augusta County, Lemke borrowed $50,000 from
Harlan Hargrove, an investment banker, and
secured the loan by a mortgage on River Oaks.
At the time this transaction took place in August,
1996, Lemke requested that Hargrove record the
mortgage. In July, 1999, Lemke conveyed River
Oaks to Bonnie Biddle who purchased the property
for $250,000. As part of the real estate transaction,
Biddle promised Lemke that she would be responsi-
ble for discharging the mortgage indebtedness to
Hargrove. This agreement of assumption was
contained in the deed instrument conveying title
to Biddle.

When Lemke sold the property to Biddle in 1999
Hargrove still had not recorded his mortgage on
River Oaks. In December, 2005, Biddle sold River
Oaks to Toby Tippen for $275,000. When Tippen
purchased the property, he had no notice of the
Hargrove mortgage.

49. In January, 2006, Hargrove demanded that

Lemke repay him the $50,000 mortgage debt.
When Lemke refused, Hargrove sued Lemke
to recover the outstanding indebtedness.
Judgment for whom?

Hargrove, because Lemke is primarily
liable for the mortgage debt.
Hargrove, because he has the election of
suing Lemke personally or foreclosing
on the property.
Lemke, because he is entitled to exoner-
ation and, thus, he may compel Hargrove
to enforce his claim against the property
first.
Lemke, because Hargrove did not record
the mortgage.

On March 1, 2004, Marcus purchased a large tract
of riverfront property (hereafter referred to as
Riverfront) in downtown Cincinnati for $750,000.
According to the terms of the real estate sales
agreement, Marcus was required to make a 20%
down payment of $150,000. To finance the balance
of the purchase price, Marcus borrowed $500,000
from Center City Bank with the loan being secured
by a first mortgage in Riverfront. In addition,
Marcus's father-in-law, Singer, loaned him
$100,000 which was secured by a second mortgage
on Riverfront. Both mortgages were properly exe-
cuted and duly recorded.

When Marcus purchased the property, he planned
to commercially develop Riverfront with upscale
shops and restaurants. By January, 2007, however,
his grandiose plans had gone bust and the so-called
Riverfront project turned into a financial disaster.
Marcus defaulted on both mortgages by failing to
make the required monthly payments. Center City
Bank elected to accelerate and brought an action to
foreclose, joining Marcus as defendant, but,
because of the negligence of the bank's attorney,
failed to join Singer. Thereupon, the court entered a
foreclosure judgment, ordering the sale of
Riverfront for satisfaction of the bank's claim
against Marcus. At the foreclosure sale, Center City
Bank purchased Riverfront for $427,000 which was
the amount unpaid on the first mortgage.

Thereinafter, Singer learned about the foreclosure
and the bank's purchase of Riverfront. He now
seeks legal advice from Covington, his attorney, as
to what recourse he has against Center City Bank in
order to protect his interest in Riverfront. Note:
there is no applicable statute significantly altering
the common-law right of redemption.

50. Attorney Covington should advise Singer that

he can protect his interest

(A) only by an action to redeem
(B) only by an action to foreclose
(C)

either by an action to redeem or by an
action to foreclose

(D) neither by an action to redeem nor by an

action to foreclose

PROPERTY

26

pmehe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONTRACTS

Contracts. An agreement between two or m
which creates an obligation to do or not to do
thing. Its essentials are competent parties, subjc
legal consideration, mutuality of agreement, an
of obligation. Lamoureaux v. Burrillville Rach
R.I 94, 161 A.2d 213, 215. Under U.C.C., tee
total legal obligation which results from parties
as affected by the Code. Section 1-201(11).

Questions 1 -2 are based on the following fact situation.

1.

Billy Graham, the founder of the Fillmore West the-
atre in San Francisco, announced that he was orga-
nizing a special show commemorating the theatre's
25th anniversary. Among the rock bands hired to
perform were Jefferson Starship, Grateful Dead,
Quicksilver Messenger Service, Santana, Blodwyn
Pig, Spirit, Country Joe and the Fish and Love. The
show, which was scheduled for February 27, was
sold out many months in advance. On February 1,
Taylor, who had purchased two front row seats for
the concert, sent the following letter (which was
identical in all respects) to his three friends, James,
Kate and Livingston:

"Dear James, Kate and Livingston:

As you already know, I have two seats for the
special Fillmore West concert. Unfortunately,
I can't attend because my sister is getting
married that night. If any of you are inter-
ested in buying my tickets, I will let you have
them for a reasonable price. However, I must
have your reply by February 20.

s/Taylor"

The tickets, which cost Taylor $100, were now sell-
ing for between $500 and $700. On February 19,
Taylor received a letter from James which stated, "I
accept your offer and will pay you $500 for the two
tickets. Taylor did not immediately respond to
James' letter. On February 22, Taylor received the
following letter from Kate, "I am dying to go to the
concert...will pay $700 for your seats." The next
day, Taylor sent a telegram to Kate which read,
"The tickets are yours. You may take delivery upon
payment of the $700." Livingston did not respond
to Taylor's letter.

Suppose that James tenders $500 to Taylor
within a reasonable time but Taylor refuses to
tender the tickets to him. In an action by
James against Taylor for breach of contract,
judgment for whom?

Taylor, because his letter of February 1
and James' reply were too indefinite to
constitute an offer and acceptance.
Taylor, because Taylor's letter of
February 1 manifested on its face to the
three recipients that it was not intended
to be construed as an offer.
James, because his was the highest bid
submitted before the February 20 dead-
line.
James, because Taylor's attempt to sell
the tickets to Kate was a breach of an
implied promise to act in good faith.

2.

Suppose that Taylor tenders the tickets to Kate
within a reasonable time but Kate refuses to
pay the $700. In an action by Taylor against
Kate for breach of contract, judgment for
whom?

Taylor, because Kate's bid was higher
than James', therefore it constituted an
acceptance of Taylor's offer.
Taylor, because his telegram of February
23 operated as an acceptance of Kate's
offer.
Kate, because she did not accept Taylor's
offer within the specified time period.
Kate, because although Taylor's letter of
February 1 may have constituted an
offer, Kate never accepted by the act of
tendering the $700.

plistaw

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

CONTRACTS

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

Higgins, a wealthy lawyer, lived in an exquisite
home located in the fashionable neighborhood of
Bel Air. Higgins had known Otto, a gardener, for
many years. One day, Otto was walking down the
street when he ran into Higgins. Otto said to
Higgins, "I will landscape your garden for $200."
Higgins replied, "That seems like a good deal."
Thereupon, Swenson, who was Higgins' brother-in-
law walked by. The three individuals then started
conversing about the fate of John Walker, the
American Taliban. Nothing further was said about
the landscaping of Higgins' garden.

The next day, Higgins telephoned Otto and said, "I
accept your offer." Otto replied, "I can't landscape
your garden because last night I contracted to land-
scape Darwin's property." Darwin and Higgins were
neighbors.

3.	

If Higgins sues Otto for breach of contract,
who will likely prevail?

Otto, because the offer lapsed at the end
of their conversation.
Otto, because his contract with Darwin
effectuated a revocation of his offer to
Higgins.
Higgins, because the acceptance was
communicated before the attempted
revocation.
Higgins, because the revocation was
ineffective.

On Monday, Chad, a widget wholesaler, faxed
Barney a letter promising to sell him 500 widgets
for $2,000. On Tuesday, Barney telephoned Chad
and said he was rejecting the offer because the
price was too high. During the telephone conversa-
tion, Chad responded, "Why don't you wait and
think it over until tomorrow?" The following day,
Barney learned that there was a nationwide widget
shortage. He immediately telephoned Chad and
said, "I changed my mind and will accept your
offer." Chad then told Barney, "Sorry, pal, you had
your chance and blew it."

4.	

After Chad refused to sell the widgets to him,
Barney sued for breach of contract. Is there an
enforceable contract between the parties?

(A) No, because Barney's telephone call on
Tuesday constituted a rejection.
(B) No, because there was no consideration
to keep the offer open until Wednesday.

(C) Yes, because Chad's statement "Why

don't you think it over until tomorrow"
revived the offer which Barney subse-
quently accepted in a timely fashion.
(D) Yes, if and only if Chad and Barney are

merchants.

CONTRACTS

2

ponbzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

After several days of negotiations, Ohner wrote to
Plummer: "Will pay you $3,000 if you will install
new plumbing in my office building according to
the specifications I have sent you. I must have your
reply by March 30." Plummer replied by a letter
that Ohner received on March 15: "Will not do it
for less than $3,500." On March 20, Plummer wrote
to Ohner: "Have changed my mind. I will do the
work for $3,000. Unless I hear from you to the con-
trary, I will begin work on April 5." Ohner received
this letter on March 22 but did not reply to it.
Plummer, without Ohner's knowledge, began the
work on April 5.

5.	 Which of the following best characterizes the
legal relationship between Ohner and
Plummer as of April 5?

(A) A contract was formed on March 20
when Plummer posted his letter.
(B) A contract was formed on March 22

when Ohner received Plummer's letter.
(C) A contract was formed on April 5 when

Plummer began work.

(D) There was no contract between the par-

ties as of April 5.

Applegate ordered two Z-7 computers from Dell to
be delivered on or before June 1st. On June 1st,
Dell delivered one Z-7 computer and one Z-5 com-
puter. The Z-5 model is comparable in all respects
to the Z-7 except it is a little slower in accessing
data. Dell tendered the Z-5 model because he only
had one Z-7 in stock and it would take six weeks
delivery time to obtain another Z-7 model.

6.	 Which of the following is the most accurate

statement regarding the shipment of the com-
puters on June 1st?

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

It constituted a valid acceptance.
It constituted a partial acceptance with
respect to the Z-7 model, and a coun-
teroffer with respect to the delivery of
the Z-5 model.
It constituted a counteroffer with respect
to both models.
It constituted a conditional acceptance
with respect to both models.

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

CONTRACTS

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 8-9 are based on the following fact situation.

On August 1 Stolper, a manufacturer of portable
drinking fountains, mailed to Sparkletts, a drinking
fountain retailer, the following written offer, "Will
sell 100 water bubblers (drinking fountains) at our
list price of $50 each. Available for immediate
delivery. Please respond by return mail."

Unaware of Stolper's offer, Sparkletts on August 1
(the same day) mailed a written letter to Stolper
containing the identical same terms: "Will purchase
100 water bubblers (drinking fountains) at your list
price of $50 each." Both letters were mailed
through the U.S. postal system.

7.	

Before either party has received the other's
correspondence, which of the following accu-
rately states the legal relationship between
Stolper and Sparkletts?

Since there was obviously a "meeting of
the minds", a contract was formed when
Sparkletts mailed its letter.
A contract exists with U.C.C. gap filler
provisions controlling for delivery and
payment terms.
A contract was formed when Sparkletts
deposited its "acceptance" since the
cross communications contained identi-
cal terms.
No contract exists because the parties
lack mutuality of assent.

Tex was a well known rodeo performer who lived in
Ft. Worth. One day Barnum approached Tex and
said, "If you will ride my bucking bronco for one
minute, I will pay you $500." Tex then went and
purchased a special saddle for the bronco ride.
After saddling Barnum's bronco, Tex started riding
when Barnum suddenly yelled, "I hereby revoke my
offer."

8.	

If Tex thereafter goes ahead and rides the
bronco for one minute, will he recover the
$500?

(A) No, because Barnum's revocation was
effective since Tex had not completed
performance.

(B) Yes, because there was an offer for a

unilateral contract that became irrevoca-
ble prior to Barnum's attempted
revocation.

(C) Yes, under the doctrine of estoppel in

(D) Yes, under the doctrine of quasi-con-

pais.

tract.

9.	

Assume the following facts for this question
only. Tex mounted the bronco and was riding
it for thirty seconds when Barnum yelled,
"The deal's off...I hereby revoke my offer." At
this juncture, which of the following best
states the legal rights and duties of the respec-
tive parties?

,(-Al Tex can dismount the bronco immedi-
ately and still recover the $500.
(B) Tex can continue riding the bronco for

the full one minute and recover damages
for breach of contract.

(C) Regardless of what Tex does, Barnum is
liable to pay him only for the cost of the
saddle which Tex purchased in reliance
on Barnum's offer.

.(D)- Regardless of what Tex does, Barnum is

not liable to pay Tex anything because
the revocation effectively discharges
Barnum's obligations under the contract.

CONTRACTS

4

plosive

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST



Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Dealer owned an original painting by the famous
French artist Icart. On Monday Dealer sent
Collector a letter which read, "I promise to sell you
my Icart for $10,000. If you accept please notify
me by Friday."

On Tuesday Collector received and read the letter.

On Wednesday Collector mailed a written accep-
tance to Dealer.

On Thursday Dealer saw Collector at a party and
said, "I hereby revoke my offer to sell the Icart."
Collector responded, "Sorry, it's too late, I mailed
my acceptance yesterday."

On Friday Dealer received Collector's letter of
acceptance.

11. Dealer has refused to sell the Icart painting to

Collector who thereafter sued for breach of
contract. Which of the following is the most
accurate statement regarding whether a con-
tract was formed?

(A) A contract was formed when Collector

mailed his acceptance on Wednesday.
(B) A contract was formed when Dealer

received Collector's acceptance on
Friday.

(C) Dealer effectively revoked his offer on

Thursday.

(D) Dealer's revocation was ineffective

because he promised to keep the offer
open until Friday.

Donner, an avid stamp collector for over twenty
years, had amassed a large and valuable collection.
Many of his stamps were extremely rare and highly
coveted. On numerous occasions Donner had
rejected offers to sell his prized collection. Finally,
on May 1 Donner sent Martin, his cousin who was
also a fellow stamp collector, the following letter:

"I've decided to part with my stamp collec-
tion. Since I want to keep it in the family, I'll
sell you my entire collection for $75,000. You
have until May 15 to make up your mind."

Donner had dictated this letter to his secretary who
mistakenly typed $75,000 instead of $78,000 that
Donner had specified. After typing the letter, the
secretary gave it to Donner who hastily signed it
without noticing the mistaken price. Martin
received this letter on May 3. Without notifying
Martin, Donner went ahead and sold his stamp col-
lection to Bigalow for $80,000 on May 10. The next
day, Donner sent a letter to Martin regretfully
informing him that he had sold the collection. This
letter was received by Martin on May 13. However,
on May 12 Martin read a local newspaper article
concerning Donner's sale of his unique stamp col-
lection to Bigalow. After reading the article, Martin
immediately dispatched a telegram to Donner
accepting his offer to buy the stamp collection. This
telegram was received by Donner that same after-
noon (i.e., May 12).

10. In all likelihood was Martin's telegram to
Donner on May 12 effective as an accep-
tance?

Yes, because Donner's May 11 letter did
not effectuate a revocation since it was
not received by Martin until May 13.
Yes, because consideration is not neces-
sary under the Uniform Commercial
Code for the creation of a sale-of-goods
contract.
No, because Donner's sale of the stamp
collection to Bigalow on May 10 termi-
nated Martin's power of acceptance.
No, because Martin's reading the news-
paper article on May 12 terminated
Martin's power of acceptance.

phi

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

CONTRACTS

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation.

LeRoy King, a high school senior at Seton Hall
Prep, had been accepted at Rutgers and Princeton.
The tuition at Rutgers was $5,000 per year. LeRoy
had planned on going to Rutgers until he discussed
his choice of colleges with his wealthy uncle,
Reggie Reed. Reggie, an alumnus of Princeton, had
fond memories of his Ivy League alma mater and
strongly encouraged LeRoy to attend Princeton.

Thereupon, Reggie promised LeRoy that he would
pay the $25,000 tuition at Princeton for the first
year if Reggie went there instead of Rutgers. LeRoy
accepted Reggie's offer and notified Princeton that
he would be attending college in the fall. LeRoy
also informed Rutgers that he would not be attend-
ing there.

Three weeks later Reggie died in a boating acci-
dent. Thereafter, LeRoy received a billing notice
from Princeton informing him that the $25,000
tuition fee was presently due. LeRoy contacted the
executor of Reggie's estate and requested payment
for his Princeton tuition. The executor told LeRoy
that he would not honor Reggie's promise.

12. In a suit for breach of contract against

Reggie's estate, LeRoy will

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

recover $25,000, because there was a
bargained-for-exchange
recover $25,000, because there was jus-
tifiable reliance
recover $20,000, because LeRoy would
have been obligated to pay the $5,000
Rutgers tuition notwithstanding Reggie's
promise
recover nothing, because Reggie's
promise was gratuitous

Ohner owned a large three-story office building in
downtown Metropolis. She planned to renovate the
building and requested several contractors to submit
bids to perform the work. One of the contractors,
Builder, in turn sought bids from several subcon-
tractors to determine the overall cost of the job.
Electrician submitted a bid to Builder that he used
in computing the bid he sent to Ohner. Builder noti-
fied Electrician to the effect.

On November 1, Builder submitted his bid to Ohner
in which he offered to perform the renovation work
for $75,000. On November 4, Electrician notified
Builder that he was unable to perform the electrical
work on Ohner's project. On November 5, Ohner
sent Builder a signed confirmation letter wherein
she stated, "I hereby accept your offer to perform
the renovation work for the quoted cost of
$75,000." Thereafter, Builder hired another electri-
cian to complete the electrical work at a cost of
$5,000 above Electrician's bid. Builder explained
the situation to Ohner and informed her that the
overall cost of the job would have to be increased to
$80,000. Ohner responded that she would hold
Builder to his original bid of $75,000 and would
not be responsible for any additional costs. Builder
then performed the renovation work, but Ohner has
not yet paid him anything.

13. Which of the following best supports a claim
for $5,000 by Builder against Electrician?

Electrician made an offer that Builder
accepted by using Electrician's bid in
computing the bid he submitted to
Ohner.
Electrician's bid was a "firm offer" that
was not revocable since both Electrician
and Builder were merchants.
Builder made an offer to Electrician that
Electrician accepted when he submitted
his bid.
An option contract was created because
Builder used Electrician's bid in com-
puting the bid he submitted to Ohner
and notified Electrician of that fact.

CONTRACTS

6

postbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

Luther LeGrand owned Chateau Chautauqua (here-
after referred to as Chautauqua), a 150-acre tract of
farmland, located outside of Wichita Falls. On April
1, Luther signed a written instrument which con-
tained the following provision: "In consideration of
$50, receipt of which is acknowledged, LeGrand
hereby grants Corina Cox a twenty-day option to
purchase Chateau Chautauqua for $250,000." The
property had recently been appraised for $250,000.
The next day Cox secured bank financing to pur-
chase the property.

On April 7, Solomon Stone, a real estate investor,
approached LeGrand and offered to buy
Chautauqua for $295,000. As a result, LeGrand
sent Cox a letter revoking the option. The revoca-
tion letter was received and read by Cox on April 9.
The next day, Cox mailed LeGrand a letter stating:
"I hereby exercise my option to purchase
Chautauqua and am ready, willing and able to con-
summate the sale on whichever date you instruct."

When LeGrand received this letter on April 11, he
telephoned Cox and told her he had revoked the
option and decided not to sell her the property. Cox
has now filed suit against LeGrand seeking specific
performance of the option and sale of Chautauqua.
In defense, LeGrand has presented uncontroverted
evidence documenting that Cox never paid him any
part of the $50 consideration recited in the option
agreement executed on April 1st.

14. Assume for the purposes of this question that
Cox, in fact, did not pay the $50 consideration
to LeGrand. Which of the following is the
STRONGEST argument in support of Cox's
suit for specific performance?

eGrand has committed an uncured

material breach of an implied promise to
cooperate in refusing to honor the option
and subsequent sale of the property to
Cox.
Acknowledging receipt of nominal con-
sideration in a written instrument, even
if false, is sufficient to make the option
irrevocable for the stipulated period
where the transaction proposes a fair
exchange.
Under the doctrine of promissory estop-
pel, Cox has relied on the written agree-
ment in exercising her option and is
ready, willing and able to consummate
the land sale transaction.
Since the writing appears to be a com-
plete integration, evidence for the pur-
pose of showing a lack of consideration
is inadmissible under the parol evidence
rule.

bccPc---. 0

postbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

CONTRACTS

Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 16 is based on the following fact situation.

Cleetco Corporation is the nation's leading cleetch
manufacturer. A cleetch is a custom designed trans-
mitter device that is used in wireless phones. Sprint
has entered into a written contract with Cleetco to
purchase 1,000 cleetches for the total contract price
of $100,000 (or $100 a piece).

After the 1,000 cleetches were manufactured,
Springer, Sprint's president, received a telephone
call from Clutz, Cleetco's CEO. During their con-
versation, Clutz told Springer that Cleetco would
not deliver the cleetches unless Sprint agreed to pay
an additional $5 per cleetch.

Reluctantly, Springer agreed to pay the additional
$5 per cleetch. Following their phone conversation,
Clutz authorized the delivery of the 1,000 cleetches
to Sprint. After the transmitter devices were
accepted by Sprint, Springer sent Cleetco a check
in the amount of $100,000. Clutz has made
repeated demands for the additional $5,000 which
Springer refuses to pay.

15. Cleetco filed suit against Sprint to recover the
additional $5,000. Which of the following
would provide Sprint with its best argument
why it is not obligated to pay the $5,000?

(A) There was no new consideration for

Springer's promise to pay the additional
$5,000.

(B) Clutz acted in bad faith in demanding

the additional $5,000.

(C) Springer's oral promise was unenforce-
able as violative of the statute of frauds.

(D) The price modification materially

altered the terms of the contract and,
thus, did not become part of the bargain.

Molar, a periodontist, owned a two-story office
building in a decaying section of downtown
Cleveland. She occupied the first floor which was
used as her dental office. The second floor was
leased to Wiggins, an attorney, for a term of three
years. On March 1, Molar entered into a written
contract with Night Owl Cleaning Service under
the terms of which Night Owl agreed to clean both
offices during a one-year period for a weekly fee of
$400. The contract also provided that Night Owl
would perform the cleaning on Wednesday night
each week after the offices had closed for business.

Night Owl performed its office cleaning services
on each Wednesday for the first two months of the
contract. Thereafter, on May 1, Molar telephoned
Night Owl and said, "We're having an office party
on Friday night. I'll pay you an additional $500 if
you can perform your cleaning service next week
on Sunday instead of the usual Wednesday." Night
Owl orally agreed.

16. Assume for the purposes of this question only
that Night Owl performed the office cleaning
as promised on Sunday instead of Wednesday.
Afterwards, Molar paid Night Owl $400 for its
weekly cleaning services and did not include
the extra $500. If Night Owl brings a breach of
contract action against Molar to recover the
additional fee of $500, judgment for whom?

(A) Night Owl will win if the court deter-

mines that both parties were merchants;
and therefore free under applicable law
to effectively modify their original con-
tract without any new consideration for
Molar's promise to pay the additional
$500.

(B) Night Owl will win because the parties'
telephone conversation on May 1,
regarding Night Owl's performing clean-
ing services on Sunday, was an effective
modification of the original contract.
(C) Molar will win because an oral agree-

ment for compensation of $500 or more
is unenforceable under the applicable
Statute of Frauds.

(D) Molar will win because Night Owl was
under a pre-existing duty to perform the
cleaning services on Wednesday of that
week; thus Molar's promise to pay extra
compensation was unenforceable for
lack of legal consideration.

CONTRACTS

8

ponbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 17 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

Daisy DuPont was a descendant of Pierre DuPont,
the founder of the DuPont Chemical Company.
Daisy, who was very wealthy, owned an extensive
art collection which she displayed at Montepellier,
her country mansion. While Daisy was away on a
Mediterranean cruise, there was a burglary at
Montepellier and her favorite Picasso painting enti-
tled "Margaux" was stolen. Although the painting
was insured for $1,000,000 by Floyd's of Flounder
Insurance Company, it had a market value of over
$1,500,000.

When Daisy returned from her trip, she met with
Jayson Jewell, a detective employed by Floyd's of
Flounder, to investigate the theft. During their
meeting, Daisy told Jayson that she would pay him
an extra $50,000 if he recovered the painting. For
the next three weeks Jayson investigated the theft as
part of his job responsibilities with Floyd's. Within
the course of this investigation, Jayson learned who
was responsible for the burglary. As a consequence,
the culprit was apprehended and the Picasso paint-
ing was recovered and returned to Daisy.

17. Jayson then requested the $50,000 which

Daisy had promised to pay him. After Daisy
refused to make the payment, Jayson sued
Daisy for breach of contract. Judgment for

(A) Daisy, because her promise was gratu-

itous

(B) Daisy, because the insurance company

owed her a pre-existing duty to find the
painting

(C) Daisy, because as an intended third-

(D)

party beneficiary under Floyd's employ-
ment agreement with Jayson, she did not
incur any legal detriment
Jayson, because the market value of the
painting exceeded its insured value,
there was sufficient consideration to
support Daisy's promise

Player, an experienced antique collector, orally
agreed to pay Stringer $250,000 for a rare
Stradivarius violin. During their negotiations, both
parties referred to the violin as "an original
Stradivarius". Stringer, a reputable antique dealer,
made no positive representations to that effect,
however, and player relied on his own judgment in
the matter. Accordingly, Player paid Stringer
$250,000 and received the violin. At the time of the
purchase, Stringer also handed Player a "bill of
sale" disclaiming, under applicable provisions of
the Uniform Commercial Code, all express or
implied warranties. The "bill of sale" was signed by
Stringer but not by Player.

A short time later, Player discovered that the violin
that he purchased was not an original Stradivarius
but a masterful imitation. The violin was valued at
only $500.

18. Player nows brings an appropriate action

against Stringer to rescind the contract and
recover the $250,000. Which of the following
will the court probably decide?

(A) Stringer will win, because the sales con-

tract was valid and enforceable under
the doctrine of caveat emptor.

(B) Stringer will win, because the "bill of

sale" disclaimed any warranties as to the
genuineness of the violin.

(C) Player will win, because although the

sales contract was valid, it would be
unenforceable under the Statute of
Frauds since Player did not sign the "bill
of sale".

(D) Player will win, because although the

sales contract was valid, it would be
voidable by Player since the parties were
mutually mistaken about the genuine-
ness of the violin.

plods,*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

CONTRACTS

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

Symington Spendthrift, an immensely wealthy D.C.
attorney, gives an annual Christmas party to which
the most prominent persons in Washington society
are invited. Invitations are coveted, and the party is
a trademark of Spendthrift's social presence in the
nation's capitol. For this year's Christmas party,
Spendthrift has decided to engage Rudolph Ruski, a
world famous ballet performer, to entertain his
guests. Spendthrift and Ruski are old acquain-
tances. They have known each other since 1968
when Ruski, who was a famous dancer with the
Bolshoi ballet, left the troupe and received political
asylum in the United States. Subsequently, they
have met at various parties and other social gather-
ings in the Washington area. Last year Spendthrift
even provided legal representation for Ruski when
he applied for permanent United States citizenship
status.

Hoping that Ruski did not have any prior engage-
ments, Spendthrift approached Ruski and asked if
he would be willing to perform at his Christmas
party. After Rush agreed, the parties then entered
into the following written contract:

"In consideration of Spendthrift's prior legal ser-
vices in preparing Ruski's U.S. citizenship papers
last year, for which, in exchange, Rush agreed to
pay Spendthrift a 'standard retainer,' Ruski hereby
promises to give a ballet performance at
Spendthrift's Christmas party, and waive his usual
$10,000 entertainment charge. Spendthrift hereby
relinquishes his claim against Ruski for the unpaid
retainer fee."

Thereafter, Ruski informed Spendthrift that he had
changed his mind and decided to spend the
Christmas holiday visiting his motherland. As a
result, he couldn't perform at Spendthrift's party.
Spendthrift was highly embarrassed because he had
already told his friends about Ruski's appearance.
Spendthrift then hired Romanoff, another ballet
star, to perform at his Christmas party for a $7,500
fee.

Adam Payne & Sons, a painting company, was
established in 1956. The company was owned and
operated by Adam Payne, age 56, who inherited the
business from his father. Adam had three sons,
Aaron, Buster and Clem. All the brothers worked
under their father's employ in the family painting
business. In 1988, Aaron, Buster and Clem had a
bitter argument with their father and decided to
start their own painting company, which they
named Aaron Payne & Brothers.

Thereafter, Aaron Payne in his new firm name
entered into a contract with Benjamin Moore
Paints, a large wholesale paint dealer, to purchase
50 gallons of paint in assorted colors, at $12 per
gallon. According to contract terms, delivery was
set for March 1 with full payment ($600) due thirty
days later. Before shipment, Betty Morgan,
Benjamin Moore's sales representative who negoti-
ated the sale, suddenly realized that she had been
dealing with Aaron Payne & Brothers rather than
Adam Payne & Sons, a longtime customer. Betty
telephoned Aaron, explained the mistake, and indi-
cated that her company required C.O.D. payment
instead of thirty day billing since this was a new
account. Being short of cash, Aaron Payne covered
by buying 50 gallons of paint from another dealer
on credit at a higher price.

19. Aaron Payne & Brothers now sues Benjamin
Moore to recover damages for breach of con-
tract. Which of the following facts, if true,
would most strengthen Benjamin Moore's
defense that because of misunderstanding no
contract was formed?

During her negotiations to sell the paint
to Aaron Payne & Brothers, Betty
Morgan referred to "your long estab-
lished business".
Whether Aaron Payne & Brothers would
have performed or breached the contract
would make very little difference in
Benjamin Moore's overall business oper-
ations.
During his negotiations with Betty
Morgan, Aaron Payne believed that she
recognized that he was acting on behalf
of his new firm.
Aaron Payne & Brothers is on the verge
of insolvency.

CONTRACTS

10

pnbt'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

In a written contract Singer agreed to deliver to
Byer 500 described chairs at $20 each F.O.B.
Singer's place of business. The contract provided
that "neither party will assign this contract without
the written consent of the other." Singer placed the
chairs on board a carrier on January 30. On
February 1 Singer said in a signed writing, "I
hereby assign to Wheeler all my rights under the
Singer-Byer contract." Singer did not request and
did not get Byer's consent to this transaction. On
February 2 the chairs while in transit were destroyed in a
derailment of the carrier's railroad car.

21. In an action by Wheeler against Byer,
Wheeler probably will recover

(A) $10,000, the contract price
(B)

the difference between the contract price
and the market value of the chairs
(C) nothing, because the chairs had not been

delivered

(D) nothing, because the Singer-Byer con-

tract forbade an assignment

20. Assume for the purposes of this question only

the following facts. Rather than suing Ruski,
Spendthrift approached Romanoff and said,
"As you already know I have a cause of action
against Ruski for nonperformance. I hereby
transfer and assign to you that claim, up to
$7,500, provided that you try to collect it
from him and agree to apply anything you do
collect, less expenses of collection, to your
fee for performing at my party." Romanoff
replied, "It's a deal." One week later,
Spendthrift sent Romanoff a letter revoking
this oral assignment. Which of the following
accurately states Romanoff's legal position
with regard to his rights under the assignment
from Spendthrift?

(A) Romanoff acquired no rights under the
assignment from Spendthrift because it
was not an unconditional transfer.
(B) Romanoff acquired no rights under the
assignment from Spendthrift because it
was oral and, therefore, unenforceable
under the Statute of Frauds.

(C) Romanoff acquired a right against Ruski

under the assignment from Spendthrift
but subsequently lost that right because
the assignment was gratuitous and,
therefore, revocable by Spendthrift.
(D) Romanoff acquired by irrevocable

assignment for value a right to enforce
against Ruski the contract rights, if any,
that Spendthrift had against Ruski, up to
$7,500, at the time of the assignment.

pssabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

CONTRACTS

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

For many years, Insurance Business Machines (here-
after referred to as I.B.M.) was engaged in the man-
ufacture and sale of specialized office equipment to
insurance companies in the northeast sector of the
United States. On May 1st, under a signed and writ-
ten contract, I.B.M. sold a computer system to the
Prudential Insurance Company in Hartford,
Connecticut for $120,000. The contract, which was
silent as to possible assignment by either party,
obligated I.B.M. to install and program a computer
system designed to Prudential's own specifications.
Under the terms of the agreement, Prudential
promised to pay I.B.M. the purchase price in three
annual installments of $40,000, beginning on June
1st. The contract further stipulated that I.B.M. would
install a list processing software program immedi-
ately, and then install without additional cost, no
later than December 1st, a telecommunications sup-
port system compatible with Prudential's West Coast
offices. The contract recited that the telecommuni-
cations system would be an essential and indispens-
able part of I.B.M.'s total performance.

As contracted, I.B.M. installed the computer equip-
ment at Prudential's Hartford offices. In addition,
I.B.M. service technicians programmed the list pro-
cessing software system in accordance with
Prudential's own specifications.

On August 1st, however, I.B.M. sold its computer
hardware division to Klewel Corp., a multinational
publishing company based in Denmark. As part of
the I.B.M.-Klewel transaction, the parties included
the following written clause in their agreement:

"I.B.M. hereby assigns to Klewel the right to
receive the outstanding annual payments in
the amount of $80,000 which Prudential
owes I.B.M under the terms of the 1.B.M.-
Prudential contract entered into on May 1st
of this year."

On September 1st, I.B.M. sold all of its other busi-
ness assets to Telecomp for a gross sales price of
$1,000,000. Telecomp, a Palo Alto computer com-
pany operating in all fifty states, specialized in the
development and sale of data processing equip-
ment. Although Telecomp manufactured software
systems that were compatible with I.B.M.'s comput-
ers, Telecomp had no previous experience with
either I.B.M.'s list processing software or telecom-
munications system. As part of Telecomp's acquisi-
tion agreement with I.B.M., Telecomp promised, in
exchange for a discount of $20,000 from the

$1,000,000 gross sales price, to install and ser-
vice the telecommunications support system as
required by the I.B.M.-Prudential contract. The
I.B.M.-Telecomp agreement, however, stipulated
that I.B.M. had assigned all of its rights to pay-
ment from Prudential to Klewel.

22. Assume the following facts for this ques-

tion only. On October 1st, Prudential deliv-
ered the telecommunications support
system specifications to Telecomp. On
October 15th, Telecomp without legal
excuse notified Prudential that it would not
perform the programming or installation of
the telecommunications system. On
November 1st, Prudential informed I.B.M.
of Telecomp's refusal to perform and
requested that I.B.M. install the telecom-
munications system. I.B.M. indicated that
it was "winding up" business and also
refused to perform. On November 15th,
Prudential rescinded its contract with
I.B.M. and tendered back to Telecomp the
computer system it had received from
I.B.M. If Klewel subsequently brings suit
against I.B.M. to recover damages antici-
pated as a result of Telecomp's wrongful
refusal to install the telecommunications
system, which of the following correctly
states and justifies the probable outcome
of the case?
(A)

I.B.M. will win because it delegated
its duties to Telecomp, and thus
Telecomp was primarily responsible
for the installation of the telecommu-
nications system.
I.B.M. will win because, in assigning
its right to payments under the May
1st contract with Prudential, I.B.M.
made no reference in the written
assignment to its remaining duties, if
any, under that contract.

(B)

(C) Klewel will win because I.B.M., in

assigning its right to payments under
the May 1st contract with Prudential,
impliedly warranted as a surety the
collectibility by Klewel of the
amounts due under that contract.

(D) Klewel will win because I.B.M., in

assigning its right to payments under
the May 1st contract, impliedly war-
ranted to Klewel that Telecomp
would perform whatever acts were
required by the contract to preserve
the value of the rights assigned.

CONTRACTS

12

pints.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

Deke Deaver hired Sidney Snead, a golf pro, to give
lessons to his 14 year-old son Drake. Deke agreed
to pay Sidney $1,000 for ten lessons which were to
be held on Saturday mornings. from 10:00 am to
11:00 am. When Drake and Deke arrived for the
first lesson, they were accompanied by Drake's 6
year-old younger brother, Desmond. As Sidney
started his instructional lesson with Drake,
Desmond asked if he could participate. Sidney did
not object and allowed Desmond to receive instruc-
tions along with his brother.

As it turned out, Desmond accompanied Drake and
took all ten lessons with his older brother. Each
Saturday Deke was present and watched Sidney
give the same lessons to both boys. After Desmond
and Drake received their last lesson, Sidney
requested payment. When Deke presented a check
for $1,000, Sidney told Deke that he owed an addi-
tional $1,000 for the lessons which Desmond
received. After Deke refused to pay for Desmond's
lessons, Sidney brought a contract action against
Deke for $1,000.

23. Deke will most likely be held liable for

(A) nothing, because Sidney allowed

Desmond to gratuitously participate in
the lessons

(B) nothing, because no formal contract was

(C)

(D)

entered into between Sidney and Deke
$1,000, because an implied-in-fact con-
tract was formed
the reasonable value of services ren-
dered as measured by Desmond's
improvement

Georgia and Dominic Ramsitovich were married on
June 1, 1980. Shortly thereafter, they each wrote
holographic wills which were deposited in a safe
deposit box. This jurisdiction recognizes such hand-
written wills as valid. On June 1, 1982, Georgia
and Dominic adopted Rosey, a two-year-old girl.
Since their holographic wills didn't make any pro-
vision for Rosey, Georgia and Dominic decided to
execute new wills. After destroying their holo-
graphic wills, they went to Brock, an attorney, who
duly executed new wills which were properly attes-
tated and subscribed.

The pertinent provisions of Dominic's will read as
follows: "I hereby leave my entire estate to my
beloved wife, Georgia, if she should survive me. In
the event that she does not survive me, then I leave
my entire estate to Rosey, our only child."
Dominic's will designated his brother, Carroll, as
the executor. Similarly, Georgia's will provided: "I
hereby leave my entire estate to my beloved hus-
band, Dominic, if he should survive me. In the
event that he does not survive me, then I leave my
entire estate to Rosey, our only child." At the time
their wills were executed, Georgia and Dominic
also signed a written agreement in which they each
promised not to make any testamentary changes
before or after the death of the other.

In 2000 when Rosey reached the age of twenty,
Georgia and Dominic told her about the provisions
contained in their wills. Expressing sincere grati-
tude, Rosey acknowledged her assent. On May 1,
2002, Dominic drowned while swimming off the
Florida coast. On May 20, 2002, Georgia executed
a new will leaving her estate to Barkowski, her new
boyfriend.

24. What remedial rights, if any, does Carroll, the
executor of Dominic's estate, have against
Georgia after learning of the provisions of her
new will?

(A) None.
(B) An action for nominal damages only.
(C) An action only for the value of the estate

Georgia left to Dominic.

(D) An action for specific performance of

the Georgia-Dominic contract.

pstabie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13

CONTRACTS

Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 26-27 are based on the following fact situation.

Norma Nameth was an 80-year-old widow who
was confined to a wheelchair after undergoing a
hip replacement operation. Norma lived in West
Grove, a remote rural town ninety miles west of
Philadelphia. Since Norma was unable to walk,
her son, Nellie decided to hire a home health
care worker to cook and look after his mother.
Thereupon, Nellie entered into an oral agreement
with Goldie Goodfellow, a certified health care
worker, to serve as a live-in companion for his
ailing mother.

According to their agreement, Goldie would pro-
vide live-in care for Norma six days a week from
Monday through Saturday with Sunday designated
as her day off.

The parties further agreed that Nellie would pay
Goldie $600 per week and that Goldie would serve
as a health care worker for a ten month period.

Goldie started to care for Norma on February 1 and
worked continuously until July 1 when she gave
notice that she would be quitting. Thereafter, Nellie
learned that Goldie had been hired away by Inca
Inkster, Norma's invalid neighbor, who agreed to
pay Goldie $800 per week to care for her.

Nellie then attempted to hire another home health
care worker to care for Norma. He had trouble
finding a replacement for Goldie because of the
remote locale of Norma's home.

25. Nellie brings suit seeking to enforce his
employment agreement with Goldie and
enjoin her from working for Inca. Nellie
should

(B)

(A)

lose, because his employment agreement
with Goldie was oral, it would be unen-
forceable under the Statute of Frauds
lose, because requiring Goldie to work
against her will would be a form of
involuntary servitude
lose, because his proper cause of action
should be for money damages
(D) win, because Goldie has committed a

(C)

material breach of contract and may be
enjoined from working for Inca

Crooner was an opera singer who collected rare
recordings of opera stars from the 1920's. Collette
owned a collection of many old opera recordings
that she had inherited from her grandfather. Collette
learned of Crooner's interest in rare opera record-
ings and offered to sell Crooner an opera recording
from an obscure tenor, Ralphio, who died after only
one recorded performance. Crooner was anxious to
obtain the recording because there were no other
known copies of a Ralphio recorded performance
and it would make Crooner's collection complete.
Crooner offered Collette $10,000 for the Ralphio
recording, subject to certification by Prof. Erickson,
a recognized expert in the subject of 20th century
opera singers. Collette wrote to Crooner and
accepted the offer. Prior to submitting the recording
to Prof. Erickson for certification, Collette received
an offer of $20,000 from another collector for the
Ralphio recording. Collette told Prof. Erickson that
the Ralphio recording was a fake so she could take
advantage of the offer from the collector. Prof.
Erickson refused to issue the certificate and Crooner
rejected Collette's tender of the recording when she
presented it without the certificate.

26. If Crooner discovers the reason why Prof.

Erickson would not certify the recording and
brings suit against Collette, Crooner may
recover

(A) nothing, because Crooner rejected

Collette's tender of the recording
(B) money damages only, measured by the
difference between the contract and the
market price
an injunction only, to prevent the sale to
the collector
specific performance

(D)

(C)

27. Which of the following statements would pro-

vide the best defense to Collette?

(A) Crooner would have had difficulty

(B)

obtaining the $10,000 to purchase the
recording
after the opera world learned of the exis-
tence of the recording, the market value
increased to $50,000

(C) Prof. Erickson would not have issued the

certificate even if he had inspected the
recording
it was uncertain whether any other
Ralphio recordings were still in existence
pstabzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONTRACTS

14

(D)

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 29-30 are based on the following fact situation.

Meredith Merryweather, a 16 year-old high school
junior, had just received her driver's permit. One
evening she was driving her mother's car in the
Orangewood National Forest when suddenly there
was a blizzard. The roadway became treacherous
and the car got stuck in an embankment.

Stranded in the forest, Meredith began walking in
the hope of being rescued by another motorist.
Miraculously, Meredith came upon a motel which
appeared to be open for business. She entered the
lobby and told Elroy Elwood, the owner, about her
predicament. Realizing that Meredith had no place
else to stay, Elwood told her that he had a vacancy
available and the room charge would be $100 per
night (despite the fact that the standard room
charge at the motel was $50 per night). Meredith
stayed two nights in the motel. The age of majority
in this jurisdiction is 18.

28. How much are Meredith's parents liable to
pay Elwood for their daughter's two night
stay?

(A) Nothing, because parents are not liable

for necessaries furnished to a minor.
(B) Nothing, because contracts of minors

(C)

are voidable.
$100, which is the reasonable rate of
furnishing necessaries to a minor.
(D) $200, which is the contract rate of fur-
nishing necessaries to a minor.

Dee Sario had failed the California bar exam three
times. On her fourth try, she hired a tutor, Cheri
Carney, to help prepare her for the next exam. The
parties formalized a written contract in which Cheri
promised to tutor Dee for four weeks and Dee
promised to pay Cheri $5,000 for her services. At
the time the women entered into their agreement,
Dee orally promised to pay Cheri an additional
$1,000 if she was successful on the bar exam.

Cheri performed her tutorial services and Dee suc-
cessfully passed the bar exam. When Cheri learned
that Dee had passed, she contacted her and asked
when she could expect payment (since Dee still had
not paid for the tutorial services). Dee refused to
make any payment to Cheri. Dee told Cheri that she
passed on her own merits and did not find Cheri's
instruction to be very helpful.

29. If Cheri initiates a breach of contract action

against Dee, the plaintiff should be entitled to
a judgment in the amount of

(A) $5,000, because the additional $1,000
constituted an unenforceable bonus
$5,000, because the agreement to pay
the additional $1,000 was unenforceable
under the statute of frauds

(B)

(C) $5,000, because the additional $1,000

payment is barred by the parol evidence
rule
(D) $6,000

30. Assume for the purposes of this question only

that Cheri tutored Dee for two weeks when
Dee suddenly died from a brain tumor. Cheri
made a written demand to Dee's estate seek-
ing payment for services rendered. After the
executor of Dee's estate refused to authorize
such payment, Cheri filed a contract action
against Dee's estate. Cheri should

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

recover nothing, because the estate was
not unjustly enriched
recover nothing, because of impossibil-
ity of performance
recover quantum meruit, for the reason-
able value of services rendered
recover $2,500, or the equivalent of one-
half of the stipulated contract amount

pimbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

CONTRACTS

Questions 31 -32 are based on the following fact situation.

The Kernel Corporation, through its president,
Demeter Gritz, requested from Vault Finance, Inc.,
a short-term loan of $100,000. On April 1, Gritz
and Vault's loan officer agreed orally that Vault
would make the loan on the following terms:
(1) the loan would be repaid in full on or before
the following July 1 and would carry interest at an
annual rate of 15 percent (a lawful rate under the
applicable usury law); and (2) Gritz would person-
ally guarantee repayment. The loan was approved
and made on April 5. The only document evidenc-
ing the loan was a memorandum, written and sup-
plied by Vault and signed by Gritz for Kernel, that
read in its entirety:

"April 5

In consideration of a loan advanced on this
date, Kernel Corporation hereby promises to
pay Vault Finance, Inc., $100,000 on
September 1.

Kernel Corporation
By / s /Demeter Gritz
Demeter Gritz, President"

Kernel Corporation did not repay the loan on or
before July 1, although it had sufficient funds to do
so. On July 10, Vault sued Kernel as principal
debtor and Gritz individually as guarantor for
$100,000, plus 15 percent interest from April 5.

31. At the trial, can Vault prove Kernel's oral

commitment to repay the loan on or before
July 1?

Yes, because the oral agreement was
supported by an independent considera-
tion.
Yes, because evidence of the parties'
negotiations is relevant to their contrac-
tual intent concerning maturity of the
debt.
No, because such evidence is barred by
the pre-existing duty rule.
No, because such evidence contradicts
the writing and is barred by the parol
evidence rule.

32. At the trial, can Vault prove Gritz's oral

promise to guarantee the loan?

(A) Yes, because Gritz signed the memoran-

dum.

(B) Yes, because, as president of the debtor-

company, Gritz is a third-party benefi-
ciary of the loan.

(C) No, because there was no separate con-

sideration for Gritz's promise.

(D) No, because such proof is barred by the

statute of frauds.

CONTRACTS

16

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 33 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

Larry Lipshitz is the father of Leroy Lipshitz, presi-
dent of a small electronics firm known as Electro-
Aeronautics, Inc. (hereafter referred to as Electro).
In January, 2007, the company decided to modern-
ize its manufacturing equipment and borrowed
$500,000 from the Bank of America (hereafter
referred to as BOA) for this purpose. The loan was
secured by a mortgage on the plant and its building
site. When the debt was about to become due,
Electro was short of ready cash and BOA threat-
ened to foreclose. Larry Lipshitz, who owned 25%
of Electro's stock, then intervened on behalf of the
company and told BOA officials that if they would
refrain from any legal action against Electro for a
year, he would personally "stand as surety and
guarantee" the loan. The bank orally agreed to
Larry's surety arrangement.

The next day, however, Larry decided that due to
adverse conditions in the electronics industry,
Electro was, at best, a marginal credit risk.
Believing that his suretyship commitment had been
imprudent, Larry contacted BOA and repudiated
his agreement.

33. Thereafter, Electro became insolvent and

defaulted on the $500,000 loan and BOA sued
Larry Lipshitz as Electro's surety. Which of
the following will the court probably decide?

(A) Larry will win, provided that BOA's

security interest in the plant and build-
ing site is not impaired by Electro's
insolvency.

(B) Larry will win, because enforcement of
his oral promise to BOA is barred under
the suretyship clause of the Statute of
Frauds.

(C) BOA will win, if the court finds that

Larry's main purpose, actual or appar-
ent, in making his suretyship promise
was to further his own economic advan-
tage rather than to benefit Electro.
(D) BOA will win, because under the doc-

trine of promissory estoppel BOA relied
on Larry's suretyship promise.

Zelda Zellman went to Dr. Dreck, a dermatologist,
for treatment of an abnormal growth on the back of
her right shoulder. Under a written contract, Dr.
Dreck agreed to surgically remove the growth for
$750. As Zelda subsequently recalled, the parties
orally agreed that if any additional medical proce-
dures were required during surgery, they would be
included in the $750 fee. Dr. Dreck, however, has
no recollection of any such oral agreement.

As agreed, the surgery was performed on an out-
patient basis at Dr. Dreck's office. He applied a
localized anesthesia that enabled Zelda to remain
conscious during surgery. While the operation was
being performed, Dr. Dreck noticed a brown mole
on Zelda's back. As Dr. Dreck subsequently
recalled, he informed Zelda about the mole and
asked whether she wanted it removed as well.
According to Dr. Dreck's account, Zelda orally
agreed to have the mole removed for an additional
$150. Zelda has no recollection of any such oral
agreement.

Dr. Dreck performed both removal procedures sat-
isfactorily. Following the surgery, Zelda paid Dr.
Dreck $750 but refused to pay any additional
money for the mole removal. After unsuccessfully
attempting to collect the $150, Dr. Dreck brought
suit against Zelda to recover the additional fee. At
trial, Dr. Dreck objects to the introduction of testi-
mony regarding any oral agreement made before
the written contract was signed. By the same token,
Zelda objects to the introduction of testimony con-
cerning any oral agreement made during surgery.

34. Which of the following considerations is most
important to a judicial ruling on Zelda's
objection?

(A) Dr. Dreck's removal of the mole con-
ferred a clear benefit on Zelda.

(B) The proffered oral agreement regarding

payment of the additional $150 occurred
after the written agreement had been
signed.

(C) The written agreement was for services

rather than the sale of goods.

(D) The proffered oral agreement regarding
payment of the additional $150 con-
cerned a new medical procedure that
was unrelated to the subject matter of
the prior written contract.

pmbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

CONTRACTS

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 36-37 are based on the following fact situation.

Toshi is the owner of Hama, a sushi restaurant in
Venice. Toshi contracted in writing with Fishco, a
fish distributor, to buy 50 pounds of touro (which is
a yellow fin tuna). At the time the contract was
signed, Toshi orally said to Fishco, "We do have an
understanding that Kifune, our chef, must approve
the quality of the fish before I will pay you".
Fishco acknowledged Toshi's request and
responded, "If you say so."

Thereafter, Fishco delivered the yellow fin tuna to
Toshi. After inspecting the fish, Kifune refused to
give his approval because the touro was spotted
instead of its customary shiny skin. As a result,
Toshi refused to accept and pay for the fish.

35. Fishco brought a breach of contract action
against Toshi because he refused to pay for
the fish delivery. How should the court rule
on Toshi's offer to prove, over Fishco's objec-
tion, that Kifune refused to approve the touro
that was delivered?

(A) The evidence is admissible to show frus-

tration of purpose.

(B) The evidence is admissible to show that
the written agreement was subject to an
oral condition precedent.

(C) The evidence is barred because the writ-
ten contract appears to be a complete
and total integration of the parties'
agreement.

(D) The evidence is barred because the oral

agreement is within the statute of frauds.

Purcher operated a hydraulic die casting plant in
Denver, Colorado. A die casting machine operates
under extremely high pressure and a hydraulic fluid
is used to transmit the pressure. Molten metal is
poured into the die casting machine and the
machine casts or stamps the metal into products.
To keep the metal molten, there must be a furnace
almost immediately adjacent to the die casting
machine.

Being dissatisfied with the hydraulic fluid he
was then using, Purcher wrote the following letter
to Celanese, a supplier of hydraulic fluid, on
March 15:

"If you will ship me 1,200 gallons of Lindol
HF-M hydraulic fluid on the first of each
month for the next twelve months, I will pay
you in cash on delivery $4.25 per gallon. In
acknowledging that this would be a full
year's commitment on your part, you may
consider this purchase order to be non-can-
cellable for thirty days.

s/Purcher"

This letter was received by Celanese on March 17.
On March 18, however, Purcher found a reliable
supplier from whom he could purchase Lindol
HF-M hydraulic fluid at a firm price of $4.00 per
gallon. As a consequence, Purcher promptly tele-
phoned Celanese and said, "I hereby withdraw my
purchase order. It was merely an acknowledgment
proposal which I now wish to cancel." Although
Celanese had not yet shipped the hydraulic fluid, he
objected vigorously and replied, "You're a little late,
Purcher. I've already decided to accept your offer."
Immediately after their telephone conversation,
Celanese telegraphed Purcher:

"I accept your offer for 1,200 gallons of
Lindol HF-M hydraulic fluid per month for
the next year at the quoted price of $4.25 per
gallon."

