

13

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 27 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Pauli Palumbo is the owner of the Palumbo
Plumbing Company located in Hoboken. Pauli
employs nineteen plumbers who are all male. State
law requires that there be a shower for every ten
employees. Palumbo installed two showers in the
men's room in compliance with state law. Recently,
Victoria Varga, a female, applied for a plumber's
apprentice position with Palumbo. Before hiring
Victoria, Palumbo filed a building permit with the
Hoboken Building and Safety Department to install
a new shower in the lady's bathroom. The building
inspector rejected the permit because it failed to
conform to the city's building code. Due to the fact
that Palumbo was unable to install a shower in the
lady's bathroom, he refused to hire Victoria.

27. Victoria now sues the city of Hoboken alleg-
ing violation of her rights of equal protection.
Which of the following best states the burden
of persuasion?

The city must show that the denial of the
permit was substantially related to an
important government interest.
The city must show that the denial of the
permit was necessary to advance a com-
pelling government interest.
Victoria must show that the denial of the
permit was not rationally related to a
legitimate government interest.
Victoria must show that the denial of the
permit was not substantially related to
an important government interest.

The state of Aquarius has passed a law requiring all
child births within the state to be performed in hos-
pital facilities by state licensed physicians except in
certain enumerated emergency situations. The law
was enacted because of public health concerns. The
state Department of Health and Human Services
conducted a study showing a significantly higher
infant mortality rate for home births than those per-
formed in hospitals.

28. Fanny is a pregnant woman who is a resident

of Aquarius. he wants to have her child birth
at home by agsistance of a mid-wife. Fanny
has filed suit challenging the constitutionality
of the Aquarius statute. The law should be
ruled

constitutional, if despite the fact that the
regulation has a substantial impact on a
fundamental right, it furthers a com-
pelling state interest
constitutional, because the regulation is
rationally related to a legitimate state
interest in advancing the public health
unconstitutional, because the regulation
has a substantial impact on a fundamen-
tal right, it does not justify an overriding
state interest
unconstitutional, because the regulation
discriminates against women on the
basis of pregnancy, it is not substantially
related to an important state interest

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

14

pmebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 29 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 30 is based on the following fact situation.

The Commonwealth of Islandia has enacted an
abortion statute in an attempt to reconcile the
conflicting interests involved when a woman
chooses to terminate a pregnancy by abortion.
The Islandia statute provided that during the first
three months of pregnancy, a woman's right to
choose to terminate the pregnancy was paramount
and could not be restricted in any manner. After the
first three months, the right of a woman to obtain
an abortion was limited to cases where it was
demonstrated by a physician that an abortion was
necessary to protect the life or health of the woman
seeking the abortion.

30. In all likelihood this abortion statute is

(A)

(B)

constitutional, because the Islandia
statute strikes a proper balance between
the fundamental right of a woman to
choose to terminate a pregnancy by
abortion and the due process right to life
of the unborn child.
constitutional, because the Islandia
statute is substantially related to the
important state interest in protecting the
health and life of the mother.

(C) unconstitutional, because the Islandia

statute imposes an undue burden on the
right to obtain an abortion.

(D) unconstitutional, because it is irrational
to impose virtually no restrictions on the
right to obtain an abortion in the first
three months while imposing significant
restrictions on the right to obtain an
abortion thereafter.

Milltown is a suburb of rapidly expanding Silicon
City. While Milltown used to be a sleepy little vil-
lage, it has doubled in size in the last decade. The
Milltown police force has noted a dramatic increase
in crime, and the public schools are having diffi-
culty keeping pace with increasing enrollments.

Last April, Milltown adopted a zoning ordinance by
referendum, providing that in order to prevent dan-
gerous overcrowding, the upscale westside neigh-
borhood known as "Snob Hill" will be limited to
single-family homes which may be occupied by
only one "family unit." A family unit is defined in
the ordinance as one or two parents plus their
unmarried children.

Elsa is a widow, and has lived in the Snob Hill
neighborhood for 52 years. Because her health is
deteriorating, she wrote to her nephew Richard and
invited him to come live with her. Elsa promised
Richard that if he would stay with and take care of
her, she would leave the house to him in her will. In
reliance on that promise, Richard left his residence
in Obregon, a neighboring state, and moved into
Elsa's house.

Elsa received a notice from the city that she was in
violation of the new zoning ordinance because she
and Richard do not constitute a "family unit" as
defined by the ordinance. Elsa filed suit in federal
court to enjoin enforcement of the ordinance
against her.

29. Based on U.S. Supreme Court decisions, the

strongest constitutional argument Elsa can
make against application of the ordinance to
her is that the ordinance

(A)

Impairs the obligation of Elsa's contract
with Richard.

(B) Denies her a privilege or immunity

protected by Article IV.

(C) Would unduly burden interstate

commerce.

(D) Would deny her substantive due process.

pstabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 31 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 32 is based on the following fact situation.

State Green has a statute that prohibits "anyone
over 60 years of age to run for public office."
Shirley Sullivan has been a state senator for three
terms and wishes to seek re-election. Shirley, who
is 61, brings suit challenging the constitutionality
of the State Green statute.

32. Which of the following best states the burden

of persuasion?

Since a fundamental right is involved,
the state must show the regulation is
necessary to vindicate a compelling gov-
ernment interest.
Since no fundamental right is involved,
the petitioner must show the age restric-
tion is not rationally related to a legiti-
mate government interest.
The state must show the age regulation
substantially furthers an important gov-
ernment objective and does not impair
the fundamental right to vote.
The petitioner must show the statute vio-
lates due process by depriving her of the
right to be a candidate.

The state of Tasmania has enacted a party affilia-
tion statute prohibiting a person from being an
independent candidate in a general election if she
or he had either (1) registered with a political party
during the year prior to the immediately preceding
primary, or (2) voted in that primary. Tasmania
adopted the so-called "disaffiliation" statute in
order to have intraparty feuds resolved in primary
elections rather than in the general election.
Moreover, Mindy Moore, the Tasmania Elections
Director, strongly supported the law and argued
that it was necessary to avoid voter confusion and
to insure that the general election winner received
a majority.

Harry Hink, who was a registered Democrat in
2005, now wishes to run as an independent candi-
date in the November, 2006 general election.
However, Ms. Moore ruled that Hink's candidacy
violated the state's "disaffiliation" statute and
barred Hink from appearing on the ballot.

31. If Hink files suit in federal district court chal-
lenging the constitutionality of the Tasmania
election statute, which of the following best
states the burden of persuasion?

The state of Tasmania must demonstrate
that the law is necessary to further an
important state interest.
The state of Tasmania must demonstrate
that the law is necessary to further a
compelling state interest.
Hink must demonstrate that the law is
not rationally related to any legitimate
state interest.
Hink must demonstrate that the state has
less restrictive alternative means avail-
able for independent candidates to get a
ballot position.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

16

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 33 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

An ordinance of the city of Dunphee placed a limit
of $100 for individual contributions whose purpose
is to support or oppose referenda or ballot initiative
measures that are to be voted on by the public in
Dunphee city elections.

33. The strongest constitutional grounds on

which to attack the validity of this ordinance
is that it

(A) deprives such organizations and their
members a privilege and immunity of
state citizenship

(B) deprives persons of a property entitle-
ment without due process of law
(C) denies residents of Dunphee equal pro-

tection of the laws

(D) denies persons of their right to freedom

of speech and association

It became apparent that many of the city of
Medford's employees were not residents of the city
but instead commuted to work in Medford from
their homes in the suburbs. Concerned that these
suburban employees were not spending enough
money earned in Medford to support the local mer-
chants, a commuter employment tax was enacted by
the city council. The tax was set at a rate of 5 per-
cent of all income earned by persons who were
employed in Medford but were not also residents of
the city. Austin, a resident of nearby Deerfield who
worked in Medford, brought an action challenging
the constitutionality of the employment tax.

34. The court should rule that the tax is

valid, as within the 10th Amendment
reserved powers of the state which may
be delegated to local governments
valid, because non-residents comprise
the peculiar source of the evil the law
was designed to redress
invalid, as violative of the Privileges
and Immunities Clause of Article IV,
Section 2
invalid, as a violation of the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment

psnbt'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 36 is based on the following fact situation.

Fishman entered into a franchise contract with
Samurai Sushi, Inc. to operate a Samurai Sushi
fast-food restaurant in Carson City, Nevada.
Samurai Sushi, Inc.'s national headquarters is
located in San Pedro, California. After the Fishman-
Samurai Sushi contract was executed, Fishman
leased a store in a shopping mall where he planned
to open his sushi restaurant. Carson City public
officials, however, refused to grant Fishman the
necessary food vendor's license despite the fact that
he can prove that his restaurant complies with all
provisions of the municipal licensing ordinance.
Section 1287 of the Carson City Food Vending
Ordinance provides, in part, that "a food vendor's
license shall be issued to any applicant who prop-
erly complies with all of the health requirements of
this ordinance." After Fishman's application for a
food vendor's license was rejected, he requested a
hearing to establish his qualifications. Carson City
officials refused this request and also declined to
give any reason for his license denial.

35. Which of the following is the strongest consti-
tutional argument that Fishman may use to
challenge the refusal of Carson City officials
to grant him a food vendor's license?

(A) The Carson City action denies him

procedural due process.

(B) The Carson City action denies him

substantive due process by arbitrarily
regulating economic activity.

(C) The Carson City action constitutes an

undue burden on the potential interstate
commerce between Fishman and his
out-of-state franchisor.

(D) The Carson City action impairs the

obligation of Fishman's contract with the
franchising company and his rental
agreement with the shopping mall.

In an effort to attract a major league baseball team
to the City of New Orleans, the City Council, with
the approval of the state legislature, passed the
Ballpark Financing and Revenue Act of 2006
("Ballpark Act") to authorize and require the Mayor
and the Sports Commission to acquire land at a
designated area and to develop and construct a ball-
park. The Ballpark Act incorporated an express
finding that the construction of a baseball park was
a municipal use for the citizens of the City of New
Orleans.

In 2007, a group of owners of property in the pri-
mary ballpark site filed suit in an appropriate state
court seeking to enjoin the City from proceeding
with plans to acquire land on that site, including the
use of eminent domain to acquire the said property.

The property owner's principal argument is that the
taking of their land would violate the Public Use
Clause of the Fifth Amendment, even if they are
paid a fair price for their loss.

36. Based on Supreme Court precedent, who has
the burden of persuasion and what is the
appropriate standard whether property taken
by the government satisfies the public use
requirement?

(A) The City must prove by compelling rea-
sons that the property taken is for a
legitimate public use because property
ownership is a fundamental constitu-
tional right.

(B) The City must prove the public use sat-

isfies an important governmental pur-
pose unrelated to the achievement of
other goals.

(C) The City must prove that its exercise of
eminent domain is rationally related to a
conceivable public purpose.

(D) The property owners must prove that

taking of their land is not necessary and
does not serve a legitimate governmental
interest.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

18

pinkie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 37 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 38 is based on the following fact situation.

The legislature of State Z is engaged in debates in
the question of regulating acupuncturists. Chester, a
well respected practitioner of this specialty, became
enraged during the heated debate and in a sponta-
neous outburst, shouted from the balcony that all
the legislators in favor of new extremely rigorous
licensing requirements for acupuncturists are "pen-
cil-necked, spineless jerks who could use a needle
up their buns." The legislators promptly acted in a
display of their power to adopt a rigorous licensing
law with a special provision revoking Chester's
license to practice as an acupuncturist.

37. When Chester challenges the revocation of his
license, what is the most likely result?

(A) This is an invalid action in violation of
his privileges and immunities under
Article IV, Section 2.

(B) This is invalid because it deprives him

of the right to engage in gainful employ-
ment.

(C) This is a bill of attainder and therefore

invalid.

(D) This is valid because a license is only a

privilege and thus there is no right to
procedural due process.

Capano was charged with robbery. The crime took
place on February 1. At the time the crime
occurred, this jurisdiction required a unanimous
verdict of all twelve jury members for a conviction.
On November 1, the state legislature enacted a new
law requiring a majority vote of eight of twelve
jurors to convict. Capano's trial began on December
1. He was subsequently convicted of robbery by a
nine to three vote. Following the trial, Capano's
attorney filed a motion to set aside the verdict.

38. Which of the following would provide the

BEST constitutional grounds to overturn the
verdict?

(A) The Ex Post Facto Clause.
(B) The Contracts Clause.
(C) The Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) The Sixth Amendment right to a fair

trial.

ponbe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 39 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 40 is based on the following fact situation.

The state of Kiwi enacted a statute requiring that
the state motto, "Live Free or Die" be prominently
displayed on all state license plates. Cherimoya, a
resident of Kiwi who considered the motto to be
personally offensive, covered the motto portion of
her license with a piece of tape. Although she left
the license plate in a condition that served its auto
identification purpose, she did not display the
motto. Shortly thereafter, Cherimoya was arrested
and charged with violating a state statute making it
a misdemeanor to deface a license plate. After she
was convicted of the charge, Cherimoya filed suit
in federal district court challenging the constitution-
ality of the state statute requiring all license plates
to be displayed with the aforesaid motto.

40. The federal court should

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

refuse to hear the case under the doc-
trine of independent state grounds
adjudge the statute constitutional, if the
state can show a rational basis for dis-
playing the motto on the license plate
adjudge the statute unconstitutional,
because it denies the petitioner the equal
protection of the laws
adjudge the statute unconstitutional,
because under the First and Fourteenth
Amendments the petitioner can refrain
from promoting a viewpoint that she
does not accept

The city of Gotham has an ordinance which allows
non-governmental organizations and businesses to
place signs on the side panels of municipal buses.
The mayor is given discretion under the law to
permit or restrict commercial signs. In the past,
various commercial, charitable and religious
organizations have been permitted to rent and
place messages, advertisements and other general
information on city buses.

Cirque du Coleil, a circus, is coming to Gotham
and wishes to rent space on the panels of the city
buses. The mayor denied the request after civic
groups expressed outrage over the cruel treatment
and unhealthful conditions which circus animals are
forced to endure.

39. Cirque du Coleil brings suit challenging the

constitutionality of the ordinance under which
the mayor has refused to allow the circus
advertising space on city buses. The court
should rule in favor of the

city, because the regulation of speech in
a nonpublic forum need only be ratio-
nally related to a legitimate government
interest
city, because it is engaged in a propri-
etary venture and such commercial
advertising may be subject to govern-
mental regulation
Cirque du Coleil, because regulation of
speech in a public forum must be con-
tent neutral and narrowly tailored to fur-
ther a significant governmental interest
Cirque du Coleil, because once the gov-
ernment provides open access to adver-
tising on city buses, it cannot engage in
viewpoint based distinctions

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

20

pmaboe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 41 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 42 is based on the following fact situation.

In Branzburg v. Hayes,  409 U.S. 665 (1972), the
United States Supreme Court by a 5 to 4 majority
rejected a reporter's claim that, as the flow of infor-
mation available to the press would be impeded if
newspersons were compelled to release the names
of confidential sources for use in a government
investigation, the First Amendment must be held to
embrace a privilege to constitutionally refuse to
divulge such information in order to protect the
reporter's channels to the community.

In the wake of Branzburg, however, several states
have enacted "state shield" laws which provide a
varying range of protection for newspersons. Now,
Congress—under intense lobbying pressure from
the press—proposes to enact legislation forbidding
any state from requiring journalists to reveal the
sources of their news articles in civil suits.

41. Which of the following is the strongest consti-

tutional argument in support of this proposed
law?

Congress has the authority under the
Commerce Clause to regulate the flow
of news.
Acts of Congress are the supreme law of
the land and take precedence over any
conflicting state laws.
Congress is essentially reaffirming the
free speech guarantees of the First and
Fourteenth Amendments.
Under Article 1, Section 8, Congress has
the authority to secure to authors and
inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries.

Notre Dame University is located in the city of
South Bend, Indiana. For many years, residents
have complained to local officials about the boister-
ous noise and senseless shouting among students
before and after Notre Dame football games. In
response to these complaints, the South Bend City
Council enacted an "anti-noise" ordinance prohibit-
ing the singing and chanting of songs from 1:00
p.m. to 1:00 a.m. by two or more persons, if such
noise is audible off the premises where the singing
takes place. The ordinance expressly exempted
from its purview the singing or chanting of reli-
gious songs.

After the ordinance was enacted and went into effect,
Notre Dame played an important football game
against University of Southern California for the
national championship. The game, which was played
in South Bend, was won by the Irish. Following the
game, a large group of Notre Dame students were
walking down Main Street on their way to a victory
celebration. They began loudly chanting, "We're
number 1...we're number 1." One of the residents
who lived on Main Street was greatly disturbed by
the noise. As a result, he reported the incident to
the police who were immediately summoned to the
scene. The students who engaged in the chanting
were arrested and charged with violating the South
Bend "anti-noise" ordinance.

42. The students who were prosecuted now bring

suit challenging the constitutionality of the
South Bend ordinance. Which of the follow-
ing would constitute their WEAKEST argu-
ment against enforcement of the "anti-noise"
statute?

The ordinance deprives persons of their
freedom of expression in violation of the
First and Fourteenth Amendments.
The ordinance deprives persons of their
liberty without due process of law
because the ordinance is not related to
any legitimate community interest.
The statutory language of the ordinance
is vague and overbroad since it attempts
to encompass all forms of singing.
The ordinance deprives the persons of
the equal protection of the laws by
impermissibly distinguishing between
religiously inspired singing and all other
forms of singing.

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW


Question 43 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

The Lucifers are a religious group which claims
that its principles are derived from those of the
ancient Druids. As a part of their annual Summer
Solstice ceremony, the Lucifers gather on the high-
est mountaintop in the vicinity for a day of prayer
and chanting. The ceremony culminates in an
evening bonfire in which the Lucifers believe the
sins of the world are expunged. The Lucifers
applied for a permit to hold their annual ceremony
on top of Mt. Snow, in a federal park. The Chief
Ranger denied the permit, citing the serious fire
risk posed by the bonfire. A federal regulation per-
mits the appropriate federal official to deny such
permits if the official has reason to believe that any
person or group could cause any environmental
harm to the federal park. However, the Chief
Ranger had been quoted in the local newspaper
making various derogatory remarks about cults, and
had denied day-use permits to other unorthodox
groups in the past.

The state of Althea passed the "Bare Bottoms"
statute prohibiting bottomless dancing in establish-
ments licensed to serve liquor. The legislature
found that the law was necessary to restrict "adult"
speech because licensed liquor establishments were
promoting lewd behavior between customers and
women entertainers. Moreover, the legislature cited
widespread reports that female dancers were
involved in prostitution in and around the licensed
premises and both rape and attempted rape took
place "on or immediately adjacent to such
premises."

Larry "Skin" Flint owned and operated the "Tuchas
Club" which was located in the state of Althea. The
club was licensed to sell liquor and featured bot-
tomless female entertainers. After the law went into
effect, the state attorney general notified Larry that
unless he banned bottomless dancing at his club,
the state would revoke his license to sell liquor.

43. What result is most likely, when the Lucifers
challenge the Chief Ranger's denial of a per-
mit?

44. Larry has filed suit in federal district court

challenging the constitutionality of the Althea
"Bare Bottoms" statute. The court should rule
the law

Denial upheld; allowing the religious
ceremony on federal land would violate
the Establishment Clause.
Denial upheld; this is a valid time, place
and manner regulation related to a sig-
nificant government interest.
Denial overturned; the Lucifers are con-
stitutionally guaranteed the right to free
exercise of their religion.
Denial overturned; the Chief Ranger is
purposely discriminating against this
religious group.

constitutional, because under the
Twenty-First Amendment a state may
regulate establishments that sell liquor
constitutional, because under its police
power a state may regulate obscene
"adult" speech that is offensive to the
average person under contemporary
community standards
unconstitutional, because it violates the
First Amendment freedom of speech as
applicable to the states under the
Fourteenth Amendment
unconstitutional, provided that the bot-
tomless performers are only visible to
adult customers and not children or
viewers from the street

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

22

pmsbzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 45 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 46 is based on the following fact situation.

State Red is concerned with the increase in teenage
use of cigarettes, chewing tobacco, cigars and other
tobacco products. In an effort to decrease exposure
to these items which pose harmful health risks, the
state legislature has enacted a statute to restrict var-
ious methods of advertising by tobacco manufactur-
ers. One of the provisions of the law states that
"advertising of tobacco prices is not permitted
except by placement of a sticker on the package or
box itself" Chesterfield Tobacco Company, a major
distributor of such products in State Red, claims the
advertising restriction violates its constitutional
rights protected by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments.

46. If Chesterfield Tobacco Company files suit

challenging the validity of the State Red
statute, the court should rule the statute

constitutional, because the state law is
rationally related to the health and safety
of Red citizens
constitutional, because the restriction on
commercial speech directly advances a
substantial government interest
unconstitutional, because the regulation
on commercial speech is not necessary
to further an important government
interest
unconstitutional, because the state could
achieve its objective by a less restrictive
means

Grass Valley is the capitol of the small, rural State
of Dichondra. Grass Valley was settled in the early
1800's by a religious sect seeking a quiet atmos-
phere in which to practice their beliefs and raise
their children. The population of Grass Valley
still consists largely of descendants of these early
settlers, and the social and political views of the
residents are generally quite conservative.

Last year, Travers opened an "adult theater" in
Grass Valley. The films shown in the theater contain
a great deal of explicit sexual material, and very
little plot. Travers was charged with violation of the
Dichondra obscenity law, which prohibits "material
whose dominant theme is appeal to prurient sexual
interests, is patently offensive and lacks serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific merit."

In his own defense, Travers claimed that he granted
admission to adults only, and that the films which
he showed had been found not to be obscene in
other states. At trial, however, Travers was con-
victed based on overwhelming evidence that the
material was considered obscene by the majority
of citizens in Grass Valley. On appeal, Travers
challenges the state obscenity law on the grounds
that it is unconstitutional.

45. Will the court agree that the statute is uncon-

stitutional as applied to Travers?

(A) Yes, because the First and Fourteenth
Amendments provide for the exercise
of individual free choice with respect
to films as well as other forms of
expression.

(B) Yes, because this statute violates the

fundamental right of consenting adults
to watch what they please in private.

(C) No, because states may use their police
powers to prohibit the showing of hard-
core pornography in a public theater.

(D) No, because states may use local

standards to determine whether a film
is patently offensive.

posebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 47 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

The Last Chance Church is organized as a religious
corporation. All of its property is owned by a group
of trustees who reside in the state of Utopia. As a
part of the practice of their religious beliefs, a cow
is required to be sacrificed. After the ceremonial
slaughter, the worshippers drink the cow's blood in
a symbolic ritual designed to cleanse their bodies of
sin. The trustees of the church have recently taken
action to have the cow slaughter ritual discontinued,
claiming that it was not a fundamental tenet of the
church's religion.

A group of church members, who also reside in
Utopia, subsequently brought suit in an appropriate
state court to oust the trustees of the church and
replace them with persons who will permit the
sacrificial ritual. Plaintiffs alleged that the cow
sacrifice is a fundamental tenet of the church's
religious rites.

47. As a matter of constitutional law, may the

state court properly adjudicate this suit on the
merits?

Yes, because there is clearly a case or
controversy between the plaintiffs and
trustees.
Yes, because the plaintiffs have standing
since they will suffer direct injury from
the trustees' proposed action.
No, because there is no diversity of citi-
zenship between the plaintiffs and the
trustees.
No, because a court decision on the
merits of the case would violate the free
exercise of religion.

Paul applied to the State Department of Motor
Vehicles (DMV) for a driver's license which was
denied by the Department because he refused to
include on the application his social security num-
ber as required by the Vehicle Code. Paul seeks an
exemption from the social security disclosure on
the ground that such regulation violates his free
exercise rights under the First Amendment.
Specifically, Paul claims that the use of such num-
bers for any other purpose than the administration
of social security would "endanger his chances of
being chosen for life after death." The primary
source of Paul's beliefs is predicated on The New
Testament, Book of Revelations, Chapter 13.

After being denied an exemption by the DMV, Paul
files a suit against the Administrator of the
Department of Motor Vehicles in an appropriate
state court alleging an infringement of his free exer-
cise rights. The state trial court conducted an exten-
sive hearing and concluded inter alia, that Paul's
beliefs were religious in nature, and sincerely held.
Nevertheless, the trial court denied Paul's petition.

48. On appeal, the state appellate court should,

applying the appropriate U.S. Supreme Court
precedent, rule that the DMV regulation is

(A)

(B)

constitutional, provided the state proves
it has a compelling reason for promoting
the legitimate public interest in highway
safety.
constitutional, because the DMV regula-
tion is a neutral law of general applica-
tion and is rationally related to
promoting a legitimate state interest.

(C) unconstitutional, if the appellate court
concludes that the sincere religious
beliefs of Paul clearly outweigh the
state's interest in promoting highway
safety.

(D) unconstitutional, provided the state

proves that the DMV regulation serves
an important governmental interest
unrelated to the suppression of religous
freedom.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

24

ponbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 49 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 50 is based on the following fact situation.

Voters in New Orleans passed a referendum
legalizing gambling in the French Quarter section
of the city. The law established a Gambling
Commission (consisting of five individuals)
that was in charge of licensing and overseeing the
activities of the casinos. The members of the
Gambling Commission were to be appointed by
the Mayor. Pursuant to his statutory power, the
Mayor appointed four private citizens and a clergy
member to the commission.

50. There is a constitutional challenge to the

appointment of the clergy member as violat-
ing the Establishment Clause of the First
Amendment. The Mayor's action is

unconstitutional, because the appoint-
ment of a clergy member to the commis-
sion fosters excessive governmental
entanglement with religion
unconstitutional on its face, if members
of the commission are vested with
enforcement powers
constitutional, because the primary
effect of appointing only one religious
member to the commission does not per
se advance or inhibit religion
constitutional, because commission
membership is an appointive privilege
and not an elective right

The Independence City School Board often permit-
ted non-religious organizations to conduct meetings
at high school buildings after school hours. The
Jimmy Swaggart Ministries, a local religious group,
submitted a request to use an Independence public
high school building to conduct a meeting after reg-
ular school hours from 7:00pm to 9:00pm. The
school board denied the request claiming that
allowing the religious group to use the school prop-
erty would violate the Establishment Clause.

The Jimmy Swaggart Ministries filed suit in state
court asserting that the school board's action vio-
lated their organization's rights of equal protection
and freedom of speech. In addition, the religious
group argued that conducting a meeting in a school
building after regular school hours did not violate
the Establishment Clause inasmuch as other non-
religious organizations were granted access.

49. In all likelihood the court should rule that the
school board's action in denying Jimmy
Swaggart's religious group access to the pub-
lic school building is

(A) valid, because allowing equal access to

the school for religious speech would
violate the First Amendment
Establishment Clause

(B) valid, because allowing religious groups

(C)

(D)

to use public school buildings fosters
excessive entanglement between state
and church
invalid, because denying religious orga-
nizations equal access to school build-
ings after school hours, while allowing
non-religious groups to use school
premises, violates the First Amendment
freedom of speech
invalid, because denying religious orga-
nizations equal access to school build-
ings after school hours, while allowing
non-religious groups to use school
premises, violates equal protection
under the Fourteenth Amendment

potato

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

25

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 	

26

P.Sibir.
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1.01.1.10
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE
EXPLANATORY
ANSWERS

Torts

Property

Contracts

Criminal Law

Evidence

Constitutional Law

imitable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Torts. (from Lat. torquere, to twist, tortus, twis
aside). A private or civil wrong or injury, other 1
of contract, for which the court will provide a re)
form of an action for damages. A violation of
posed by general law or otherwise upon all persc
ing the relation to each other which is involved
transaction. Coleman v. California Yearly ]
Friends Church, 27 Cal.App2d 579, 81 P.2d 469,

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.	

(C)	
A person is subject to liability for battery if he or she acts intending to cause  a harm-
ful or offensive contact with the person of the other and an offensive or harmful contact
directly or indirectly results. An act which is not done with such an intention does not make
the actor liable for mere offensive contact. Since Keiki vomited involuntarily, she would lack
the requisite intent to be liable for tortious battery.

(D)	
According to Restatement of Torts 2d,  Section 50, taking part in a game manifests a
willingness to submit to such bodily contacts that are permitted by its rules or usages.
Participating in such a game does not manifest consent to contacts which are prohibited by the
rules of the games. MBE Exam Tip: This is true even though the player knows that those with
or against whom he is playing are habitual violators of such rules. As such, choice (D) is cor-
rect.

(B)	
Note that choice (A) is wrong because in order to be liable for battery the defendant
must act intending  to cause a harmful or offensive contact. Here, Barkley did not act intend-
ing to strike Mrs. Mertz. Therefore, Barkley is not liable for tortious battery. With respect to
choice (C), this is a classic Multistate play on words. Students must be able to distinguish
between accidental and negligent conduct. In this regard, it is possible to act accidentally but
still be negligent or careless. Furthermore, choice (D) is wrong because self-defense is not a
defense for negligence. Thus, choice (B) is correct by process of elimination.

(B)	
A similar Torts issue was presented on last summer's MBE exam. Obviously, this
is an extremely difficult problem because choices (A), (B) and (C) are all arguably correct.
However, alternative (B) is the best answer because when Bates threw the rock and hit the
car, he committed a battery. Remember that protection against unpermitted contacts
extends to any part of the body, or to anything which is attached to it and practically
identified with it.  Thus, Prosser states that "contact with the plaintiff's clothing, or with a
cane, a paper, or any object held in his hand will be sufficient; and the same is true of the
chair in which he sits, the horse or the car which he is riding or driving,"  Law of Torts,
pg. 34. Note that choice (C) is incorrect because according to  Restatement of Torts, 2d,
Section 17, where A is trespassing on C's land and C throws a stone at A, C is subject to
liability when the stone strikes A. See Illustration 3, pg 29. Finally, Bates is also liable for
assault because the facts indicate that Asher was frightened and momentarily lost control
of the vehicle.

(B)	
This is a very "tricky" Multistate question that must be answered by process of elim-
ination. Choice (C) is wrong because Pauline apparently consented to the sexual encounter
with Don. Thus, consent would be a valid defense for the intentional tort of battery. Choice
(D) is incorrect because invasion of right to privacy covers (1) appropriation, (2) false light,
(3) public disclosure of private facts and (4) intrusions on one's seclusion or solitude. A con-
sensual sexual relationship would not result in an invasion of right to privacy. As between
choices (A) and (B), (B) is preferred because  the extreme and outrageous nature of conduct
may arise from the abuse by the defendant of a relation or position which gives the defen-
In particular police officers, school author-
dant actual or apparent authority over the victim. 
ities, landlords, and collecting creditors have been held liable for extreme abuse of their
position. Note that choice (A) is less preferred because in order to recover for negligent
infliction of emotional distress the plaintiff must suffer bodily harm or injury.  Here, the
facts state that Pauline suffered emotional distress but not bodily harm or injury.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1	

TORTS

6.	

7.

8.

One of the most popular Multistate testing areas deals with suits brought by third par-
(C)	
ties for intentional (or reckless) infliction of emotional distress. As a general rule, in order for
a third party to recover two requirements must be satisfied:  (1) the third party must be a close
family member of the person to whom the defendant is directing his (extreme and outra-
geous) conduct and (2) the defendant should be aware of the presence of the third person.
If the third person is not a close family member, then he/she must suffer bodily harm in order
to prevail. Here, many students will be "suckered" into choosing answer choice (D). Zone of
danger is a principle applicable to negligence actions (or even possibly negligent infliction of
emotional distress) and deals with duty of care to foreseeable plaintiffs. This is not a negli-
gence action, but a question that deals with intentional infliction of emotional distress. As
such, choice (C) is correct because it states one of the elements for recovery.

INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS CHART:

defendant's conduct
extreme & outrageous

X

R

Y	

Z	

In order for Z (third person) to recover
against X, two requirements must be met:
Z must be a close family member of Y
and Z must be present and witness X's
extreme and outrageous conduct. If Z is a
non-family member, then she must suffer
bodily harm.

(C) By process of elimination, choice (C) would be correct. First, choice (A) is incorrect
because when Priscilla consulted Dr. Goodright she impliedly consented to his touching her
for the purposes of medical treatment. Alternative (D) is incorrect because Dr. Goodright did
not manifest any wrongful intent to inflict emotional distress. The tough choice is between (B)
and (C). Choice (B) is not the best answer because, to recover for emotional distress inflicted
through negligence, the emotional distress must follow some form of physical injury suffered
by the plaintiff. Here, the emotional distress occurred before  the plaintiff suffered physical
injury. Therefore, choice (C) is the preferred answer.

(C) This is a "tricky" Torts Multistate question dealing with private necessity. As a
general rule, private necessity will excuse tortious conduct aimed at property. However,
according to Restatement of Torts, 2d, Section 263, which specifically addresses the priv-
ilege of private necessity as applied to trespass to chattels or conversion, "Where the act is
for the benefit of the actor or a third person, he is subject to liability for any harm caused
by the exercise of the privilege." Therefore, Jensen would be liable for the damage caused
to Baxter's boat. Note that choice (D) is incorrect because Jensen is not liable for conver-
sion because he only destroyed the mast of the boat.

9. (A) Here's a very tricky Multistate example in which students are required to distinguish
between crimes and torts. Be advised that since Haller is asserting a claim against Feinstein
for damages, this is a civil action. As a result, the question really being asked is whether
Feinstein is liable for conversion? The answer is yes. According to  Restatement of Torts 2d,
Section 244, "An actor is not relieved of liability to another for conversion (or for trespass to
chattels) by his belief, because of a mistake of law or fact not induced by the other, that he has
possession of the chattel." In which case, Feinstein remains liable for conversion because the
overcoat was ruined while in her possession. There was thus a conversion even though the dis-
possession resulted from Feinstein's mistake of fact.

TORTS	

2

psitabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Nuance Chart:

TRESPASS TO CHATTELS

CONVERSION

1. intentional tort
2. ways committed: intentionally  dispos-
sessing or intermeddling with a chattel in
the possession of another

3. defendant liable for the damage or harm

done to the chattel

1. intentional tort
2. intentionally exercising dominion or
control over a chattel which seriously
interferes with the rights of the owner
3. defendant liable for the full value of the

chattel

10.	

One is subject to liability for trespass, irrespective of whether he causes harm to any
(C)	
legally protected interest of the other, if he  intentionally  enters the land in possession of the
other. Based upon the given facts, Vic did not intentionally drive his vehicle onto Edna's prop-
erty. Rather he lost control of his vehicle while trying to negotiate a sharp curve in the
highway. In this regard, Vic may be liable for trespass because he was operating his car in a
reckless manner. However, where a person enters the land of another through negligence,
recklessness or as a result of an abnormally dangerous activity,  in order to be liable for tres-
pass he must cause damage to the land.  Therefore, choice (C) is a better answer than
(A) because even though Vic was reckless, he will not be liable unless he damaged Edna's
property. Note that choice (B) is not correct because Vic's entry was not intentional.

Multistate Nuance Chart

TRESPASS

Intentional Entrees

Negligent or Reckless Entrees

1. One is subject to liability, regardless of

whether he thereby causes harm to the land, if
he intentionally  enters the land in the
possession of another.

2. A trespass covers intrusions upon, beneath and

above the surface of the earth.

3. Mistake is no defense. It is the intent to enter,
not the intent to trespass, that determines
liability.

One who negligently or recklessly enters the land
of another is subject to liability if, but only if,  he
causes harm to the land or to a thing on the
land.

11. (D) Most general bar review outlines only review trespass in terms of intentional entries.
The Bar Examiners are "keenly" aware of this omission and thus frequently hone in on tres-
pass. According to Restatement of Torts 2d, Section 166, a person is not liable for trespass
for an "accidental" entry that is unintentional and non-negligent.  Here, for example, the
facts state that Drake hit a golf ball down the middle of the fairway. The ball struck a tree
limb and then ricocheted onto Virginia's property. Since this is an "accidental" entry, choice
(D) is correct. The Pavlov dog response is choice (B) because the general outlines advise stu-
dents that intent to trespass is not required, it is only the intent to do the act that is necessary.
MBE Exam Tip: This definition applies to intentional entries that involve mistake (meaning
that it is simply the intent to enter that is required). This particular question, however, does
not deal with an intentional entry, but an "accidental" entry that was unintentional.

pssabie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

TORTS

12.

13.

14.

15.

(C) According to the "shopkeeper's privilege", a businessman who reasonably sus-
pects a customer of theft, or of failure to pay,  may detain the suspected individual for a
short time in order to investigate. The privilege is, however, a very restricted one, confined
to what is reasonably necessary for its limited purpose, of enabling the defendant to do
what is possible on the spot to discover the facts. There will be liability if the detention is
for a length of time beyond that which is reasonably necessary for such a short investiga-
tion. In the present case, Hardcastle was privileged to make a temporary detention since he
reasonably believed that a theft had occurred. As a result, choice (C) is correct. Note that
choice (D) is less preferred because Dwyer is asserting an action for false imprisonment.
Thus, it is irrelevant whether her seizure was foreseeable. The "key" issue here is whether
the storekeeper acted reasonably under the circumstances.

(C) A popular Multistate testing area deals with proximate or legal cause. In order to be
liable for negligence, defendant's conduct must constitute the legal or proximate cause of
plaintiff's harm or injury. According to the rule enunciated in the Palsgraf case, Judge
Cardozo stated that a defendant's duty of care is owed only to foreseeable plaintiffs (i.e. those
individuals who are within the risk of harm created by defendant's unreasonable conduct).
Choice (C) is the best answer because it addresses the fact that Bush was an unforeseeable
plaintiff to whom no duty of care was owed. Choice (B) is incorrect because transfered intent
does not apply chattel-to-person, only person-to-person.

(D) This question deals with the duty of care an owner or occupier of land owes to  per-
sons outside of the premises. The traditional rule adopted by both the English and American
courts is that a possessor of land is under no affirmative duty to remedy conditions of purely
natural origin upon his/her land. On the other hand, there is an exception in cases involving
dangerous trees. It is still the prevailing rule that the owner of rural land is not required to
inspect it to make sure that every tree is safe, and will not fall over onto a public highway. But
Prosser states that "when the tree is in an urban area, the landowner now has a duty of rea-
sonable care, including inspection to make sure that the tree is safe."  Law of Torts, pg. 390.
Moreover, recent decisions have extended the right to reasonable protection from travelers on
the street to adjoining landowners as well. Choice (D) thus correctly states the applicable rule
of law. Note that choice (A) is wrong because this question does not involve an intentional
trespass situation.

(D) There is no duty to control the conduct of a third person as to prevent him from caus-
ing physical harm to another unless a special relationship exists between the actor and the
third person which imposes a duty upon the actor to control the third person's conduct.
Prosser states that a special relationship exists between (a) a common carrier and its passen-
gers; (b) an innkeeper towards its guests; (c) landlords toward their tenants; (d) jailers toward
their prisoners; (e) hospitals toward their patients; and (f) schools toward their pupils. Here,
the teacher was under a duty to control the actions of the student. She breached her duty of
care by failing to act in attempting to disarm the student or to report the situation to law
enforcement authorities. However, choice (D) is preferred because it focuses on the interven-
ing force (i.e. proximate cause), rather than Shirley's initial breach of duty.

16. (C) According to Prosser, one of the most difficult questions in connection with negli-
gence is with regard "to what a person is required to know" in order to warn another of unrea-
sonable risks of harm. Obviously, an individual will not be responsible for risks that he or she
is unaware of. Therefore, since Amy did not know that the package was leaking, she did not
breach any duty of care to Beth. Choice (D) is wrong because in a joint venture the negligence
of one member is imputed to the others. Here, we are not imputing negligence. Rather, Amy
is not shown to be negligent under the given facts.  MBE Exam Tip: The duty of care that a
driver owes to a rider depends on whether the rider is viewed as a "guest" or a "passenger." If

TORTS	

4

ponbo*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17.

18.

19.

20.

the rider confers an economic benefit on the driver (e.g., pays for tolls or gas), then she is con-
sidered an invitee. On the other hand, a gratuitous rider is viewed as a licensee. Under the
given facts, Beth is a licensee to whom Amy's only duty was to warn of known dangerous
conditions. Since Amy was unaware of the contents of the package, she did not breach any
duty of care owed.

(B) People who enter public buildings (such as churches, airports, museums) are classi-
fied as invitees. A hotel would fall under the category of a building open to members of the
general public. Therefore, Crosby is viewed as an invitee. The duty owed to an invitee is
twofold: (1) duty to make reasonable inspections and (2) duty to make safe for the protec-
tion of invitees who enter.  Here, since the hotel breached its duty to inspect and make safe,
Crosby will be entitled to recover. Thus, choice (B) is correct.

(D) Here's an extremely "tricky" Multistate question dealing with the attractive nui-
sance or trespassing children's doctrine. Under the attractive nuisance doctrine a posses-
sor of land is subject to liability for physical harm to trespassing children where (a) an
artificial dangerous condition exists on the property; (b) the possessor knows or should
know that children are likely to trespass on the property; (c) the children because of
their youth, age or immaturity fail to appreciate the danger or realize the risks involved
in intermeddling with it; and (d) the utility of maintaining the dangerous condition is
slight compared to the risks involved.  It is important to note that the inability of a child to
appreciate the danger is a subjective test.  Therefore, choice (D) is preferred. According to
Prosser, "the child, because of his immaturity, either must not discover the condition or
must not in fact appreciate the danger involved." Torts, pg. 408. Exam Tip: Note that
choice (C) is wrong because it addresses the  objective standard of conduct to which a
child generally must conform to in order not to be held liable for negligence. In an attrac-
tive nuisance question we are not dealing with the issue as to whether a child is negligent
but rather whether the child subjectively appreciates the danger that exists.

(C) This is a very clever torts Multistate question dealing with negligence per se or
violation of statute. In order to recover for negligence per se, most courts require that (1)
the plaintiff be a member of the class of persons intended to be protected by the statute and
(2) the harm suffered must be of a type that the statute was designed to protect against. It
is important to point out that this type of statute is a "blue law" regulation, the purpose of
which is the observance of the Sabbath. Therefore, the liquor store is not automatically
liable for negligence per se merely for selling beer before noontime. Choice (C) is thus
correct because it will be necessary to show that the clerk was negligent in breaching his
duty of care owed.

(C) This is a "tricky" torts question dealing with res ipsa loquitur and directed verdicts.
A "ploy" that is frequently tested on the Multistate is to present a negligence question and
then indicate in the facts that the plaintiff has failed to present any evidence supporting the
cause of action. When a plaintiff fails to satisfy her burden of production (by presenting a
preponderance of evidence to prove the elements of her claim), the court may grant defen-
dant's motion to dismiss. However, in res ipsa loquitur situations there is an inference of
negligence on the part of the defendant. As a result, the plaintiff has made a prima facie
case and no directed verdict may be given the defendant. Note the choice (A) is wrong
because res ipsa loquitur simply establishes an inference of negligence. Basically, it
allows the plaintiff to escape a nonsuit, or a dismissal of his action.  However, the infer-
ence of negligence to be drawn from the circumstances is left to the jury which may very
well find against him. Certainly, the defendant in rebuttal may present a preponderance of
evidence to avoid liability.

psnier

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

TORTS

21.

22.

(B)	
Hieroglyphics hired Simon Contracting Company, an independent contractor, to per-
form renovations to its building. In most jurisdictions, the owner of a commercial enterprise
open to business invitees cannot delegate responsibility for the maintenance of the public
premises to an independent contractor. If the contractor is negligent in work on the premises,
the business will also be liable. The need to protect the customer's safety is deemed more
important than the owner being held liable when he is not personally negligent because the
owner can obtain insurance or put an indemnity clause in his agreement with the contractor.
This is not strict liability as someone—the contractor— must be negligent. It is a form of
derivative or vicarious liability. Here, Simon Contracting Company was negligent in applying
the plaster. Sandy has come on the premises to buy a book; he is a business invitee. Both
Simon Contracting Company and Hieroglyphics will be liable for his injuries. Choice (A) is
not the best choice. Choice (A) states another factual argument for Hieroglyphics' liability but
not the only argument. Choice (C) is not correct. Simon Contracting Company's acts being
the cause of injury does not eliminate Hieroglyphics' liability on a vicarious liability theory.
Rather, it is a necessary element. Choice (D) is incorrect. This type of duty cannot be dele-
gated as discussed above.

(B)	
It is important to note that the MBE instructions for Torts state as follows, "Examinees
should assume that joint and several liability, with comparative negligence, is the relevant rule
unless otherwise indicated." Therefore, you must assume that pure comparative negligence
applies to this fact pattern because you are not told otherwise. As a general rule, comparative
negligence statutes have the effect of apportioning damages based on the parties' respective
degrees of fault. For example, if the defendant's fault is found to be twice as great as that of
the plaintiff, the latter will recover two-thirds of his damages, and himself bear the remainder
of his loss. In the present case, Driver was negligent in failing to keep proper lookout while
driving. By the same token, defendant was also at fault since he left an abandoned auto in the
middle of the highway. As a consequence, plaintiff's recovery will be diminished in propor-
tion to his negligence. Note that choice (C) is wrong because the "last clear chance" doctrine
is applied in contributory, not comparative, negligence jurisdictions.

Multistate Nuance Chart:

TORTS

COMPARATIVE
NEGLIGENCE

Where Plaintiff is
Negligent:

He still recovers but his damages
are reduced in proportion to his
negligence.

CONTRIBUTORY
NEGLIGENCE

He is barred from recovering
as a matter o law.

"Last Clear Chance"
Doctrine:

Not Applicable

Applicable

Essay Exam:

"MBE Exam:

Majority View.

Minority View.

Applied unless otherwise
directed.

Not applied unless directed by
specific question.

Joint & Several
Liability:

Applies

Applies

23. (B) According to Prosser, certain results, by their very nature, are obviously incapable of
any logical, reasonable, or practical division. Death may be such a result, and so may be a
broken leg or any single wound, the destruction of a house by fire, or the sinking of a barge.
Where two or more causes combine to produce such a single result, incapable of any logical
division, each may be a substantial factor in bringing about the loss, and if so,  each must be
charged with all of it.  In this situation, most courts place the burden of proof on the issue of

TORTS

6

pubs'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

24.

25.

26.

27.

causation upon the two defendants. Unless the innocent defendant can prove that he or she is
not culpable, liability will be imposed. This is the rule enunciated in the case of Summers v.
Tice, 1999 P.2d 1 (1948). Choice (B) is therefore correct.

(B) Once again, you are instructed to assume pure comparative negligence unless told oth-
erwise. In a "pure" comparative negligence jurisdiction, a plaintiff's contributory negligence
does not operate to bar her recovery altogether, but does serve to reduce her damages in pro-
portion to her fault. Thus, a plaintiff can recover even if her fault is greater than 50%. In this
example, plaintiff Dawkins' damages award of $100,000 will be reduced by the percentage of
fault attributed to her, namely 30% or $30,000. The remaining amount, $70,000 will then be
reduced by an additional $20,000 representing the payment made by defendant Cunningham's
insurance company to plaintiff, since this amount comprises part of the $100,000 damage
award itself. Therefore, Dawkins will recover $50,000. Choice (B) is correct. Note that choice
(C) is incorrect because the "collateral sources" rule covers situations where the plaintiff has
recovered damages from his or her own insurance company. Such benefit will not reduce or
effect the amount of recovery from the tortfeasor. However, the "collateral sources" rule does
not apply here because the defendant's insurance company paid part of  plaintiff's damages.

(A) On all standardized examinations (whether it be the MBE, SAT, LSAT, GRE) the
Examiner's main goal is "to hide the correct answer".  The Examiners try to accomplish
this by employing "distractors", "red herrings" and "Pavlov dog" responses. Here, the
comparative negligence statute is the "distractor".  A comparative negligence statute only
applies when the two negligent parties (e.g., Feller-Pafko) are suing one another.  On the
contrary, Wertz was a passenger who was injured by the combined negligent acts of both
Feller and Pafko. Therefore, Feller and Pafko are joint tortfeasors who would be jointly
and severally liable for the full amount of (Wertz's) damages. Choice (A) is correct
because Wertz may recover full damages from Pafko who could then seek contribution
from Feller.

(C) Restatement of Torts 2d,  Section 885(1) provides: "A valid release by one tortfeasor
from liability for harm, given by the injured person, does not discharge others liable for the
same harm, unless it is agreed that it will discharge them." However, subsection (3) states, "A
payment by any person made in compensation of a claim for a harm for which others are liable
as tortfeasors diminishes the claim against the tortfeasors, at least to the extent of the payment
made, whether or not the person making the payment is liable to the injured person and
whether or not it is so agreed at the time of payment or the payment is made before or after
judgment." Based on this aforesaid section, choice (C) is correct because Householder's claim
against Visitor will be diminished by $12,500 (or the amount of his recovery from Resident).

(B) In order to answer this question, it is necessary to determine Candace's tort status.
Since the facts state that Safeway permitted Westside parents to park on the lot  with the
those entering the premises will be
expectation that they would shop in the supermarket, 
viewed as invitees (or "business" visitors). Prosser states that a person may be classified
as an invitee even though she does not actually confer an economic benefit to the posses-
sor. The important consideration is whether there is a  potential pecuniary profit  to be
gained. This same issue was tested on a recent MBE exam when a person entered a super-
market with no intention of buying anything but to change a $1 bill for the parking meter.
He nonetheless was an invitee. Although Candace is an invitee, choice (B) is a better
answer than (A). A shopkeeper generally is not liable for the intentional tortious acts of
third persons unless the defendant is aware of such a danger. See Prosser, pg. 202 where a
shopping mall owner was held liable for an assault in the parking lot since he had knowl-
edge of prior criminal attacks on shopping center patrons.

posabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7	

TORTS

28.

29.

30.

31.

(B) Prosser states that "if the intervening cause is one which in ordinary human experi-
ence is reasonably to be anticipated, or one which the  defendant has reason to anticipate
under the particular circumstances,  he may be negligent, among other reasons, because he
has failed to guard against it; or he may be negligent only for that reason." Furthermore,
Prosser notes that "even though the intervening cause may be regarded as foreseeable, the
defendant is not liable unless his conduct has created or increased an unreasonable risk of
harm  through its intervention." Thus, "there may be an appreciable danger that the plaintiff
will be struck by lightning, or by an automobile in the street, or a mail sack thrown from a
train, or that a kerosene lamp will explode in his face, but there is  no liability unless what the
defendant has done has increased the risk."  Thus, since Farmer increased the risk of harm
by stopping his tractor on the top of the hill, choice  (B) is the best answer. See Prosser,  Law
of Torts, pp. 274-275.

(B) It is well established that a defendant is held liable for foreseeable intervening caus-
es. Examples of foreseeable intervening causes include: (1) subsequent medical malpractice;
(2) negligence of rescuers; (3) subsequent disease; and (4) subsequent accident. Where the
defendant suffers a subsequent injury following her original injury, and the original injury was
a substantial factor in causing the second accident, the original tortfeasor is usually held liable
for damages arising from the second accident. As a consequence, choice (B) is correct because
Sally's eye injury was a substantial factor in causing her injury at Home Depot due to her
vision impairment.

(B) On a recent Multistate Bar Examination a similar issue dealing with fireworks was
tested. The Examiners held that fireworks is  not a per se ultrahazardous activity. This appears
to be the emerging trend nationally which should now be followed on the bar exam. Today,
fireworks displays are rather commonplace in society and frequently occur at sporting events,
Fourth of July celebrations and concerts. As a result, when confronted with MBE questions
Therefore,
involving fireworks, students are instructed to apply a negligence standard. 
choice (B) is correct because if Roman was negligent, then Cal would be vicariously liable
under a joint venture theory.

(B) Transporting a large quantity of highly flammable chemicals in one's automobile
is an abnormally dangerous activity.  Consequently, Pierre is subject to strict liability
based upon Restatement §519 which states: "One who carries on an abnormally danger-
ous activity is subject to (strict) liability for harm to the person, land or chattels of anoth-
er resulting from the activity, although he has exercised the utmost care to prevent the
harm.

32. (D) Under Restatement of Torts, 2d §519, (1) "One who carries on an abnormally
dangerous activity is subject to (strict) liability for harm to the person, land or chattels of
another resulting from the activity, although he has exercised the utmost care to prevent the
harm. (2) This strict liability is limited to the kind of harm, the possibility of which makes
the activity abnormally dangerous." While it is true that blasting is an abnormally danger-
ous activity, the extent of protection under the rule only applies to  harm which is within
the scope of the abnormal risk that is the basis of the liability.  Thus, one who transports
explosives is not liable for every possible harm  that may result from carrying on that activ-
ity. The owner of a truck carrying dynamite would be strictly liable if an explosion occurs
during transport, but not strictly liable if the truck containing explosives simply runs over
a pedestrian. Likewise, if the blasting had caused the building that housed plaintiff's mink
to collapse, strict liability would apply. However, the fact that due to fright Powell's adult
mink ate their young is an example of harm which is outside the scope of the abnormal risk
created by Davis' blasting operations. Strict liability would not apply. The facts also indi-
cate Davis was not negligent, so Powell will not prevail for the loss of his mink. Choice
(D) is the correct answer. See Restatement of Torts, 2d §519, Illustration 1.

TORTS	

8

pssibp

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

33. (A)	

According to Restatement of Torts, 2d, Section 507, "A possessor of a wild animal
is subject to (strict) liability to another for harm done by the animal to the other, his person,
land or chattels, although the possessor has exercised the utmost care to confine the animal,
otherwise to prevent it from doing harm." This fact situation is analogous to  Restatement
Illustration 1, Sec. 507, pg. 13, in which a pet chimpanzee escaped from defendant's prop-
erty and approached a group of children. The mother of one of the children erroneously think-
ing the chimpanzee was about to attack her child, rushed to her child's assistance and in her
hurry and excitement, she stumbled and fell, breaking her leg. In accord with the position
taken by the Restatement, the owner of the monkey is subject to strict liability. Note that
choice (B) is wrong because despite the fact that the defendant(s) may have exercised utmost
care to prevent the animal's escape, they are nonetheless strictly liable. Choice (C) is incor-
rect because it is not necessary that the possessor should have reason to know that the partic-
ular animal possesses a dangerous propensity. Although he may reasonably believe that it has
been so tamed as to have lost all of these propensities, nonetheless he takes the risk that at any
moment the animal may revert to and exhibit them. Choice (D) is wrong because a wild ani-
mal not kept under effective control is dangerous to the personal security of others not only
because it is likely to attack them but also because the fear of an attack may cause injury to
result.

Multistate Nuance Chart

WILD ANIMALS
(Strict liability for harm done)

DOMESTICATED ANIMALS

(Not subject to strict liability unless possessor

had scienter of animal's dangerous propensity)

Lions
Tigers
Bears
Elephants
Wolves
Monkeys

Rattlesnakes
Alligators
Ostriches
Tsetse flies
"Killer" bees
Guard dogs

Cattle
Sheep
Horses
Dogs
Cats
Mules

Bulls
Stallions
Parrots
Bees
Goats

34.

(A) Most importantly, students must recognize that this question involves strict products
liability. Leff is alleging that the ignition switch was "defective" and "unreasonably dan-
gerous" which are the required elements for strict products liability. As a general rule, the
only defense in strict liability is assumption of risk, not contributory negligence. Choice (C)
is wrong because it addresses contributory negligence. Always remember the main difference
between assumption of risk and contributory negligence is that  assumption of risk is a sub-
jective standard. The plaintiff must subjectively be aware of the danger and knowingly expose
himself or herself to the danger. On the other hand, contributory negligence is an objective
standard where the plaintiff's conduct falls below the applicable standard of care necessary
for his or her own protection. In this question, Leff was not aware of the danger of the fork-
lift restarting by trying to reinsert the ignition switch. In addition, choice (B) is incorrect
because this is not a breach of warranty action but rather a strict liability action. Likewise,
choice (D) is wrong because it addresses negligence, not strict liability. By process of elimi-
nation, choice (A) is the best answer.

35.

(B) Strict products liability is one of the most heavily tested areas on the bar exam
(both on the essays and the MBE)! According to  Restatement Section 402(A), one who
sells a product in a defective condition unreasonably dangerous to the user or consumer
is strictly liable for the harm or injury caused. In order to prevent a product from being
unreasonably dangerous, the seller may be required to give directions or warning on the
container, as to its use. If the product contains an ingredient to which a substantial num-

pstaboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

TORTS

36.

37.

38.

39.

ber of the population are allergic, and the ingredient is one whose danger is not generally
known, or if known is one which the consumer would reasonably not expect to find in the
product, the seller is required to give warning against it. But Restatement subsection (j)
advises that a seller is not required to warn with respect to products which are only dan-
gerous, or potentially so, when consumed in excessive quantity, or over a long period of
time, when the danger, or potentiality of danger, is generally known and recognized.
Choice (B) is therefore correct.

(C) Under the consumer-contemplation test  as stated in Section 402A of the
Restatement of Torts 2d,  any "foreseeable user" or "ordinary user" of a defectively danger-
ous product may recover for strict liability. Prosser states that "the user may be a member of
the family of the final purchaser, or his employee, or a guest at his table, or a mere donee from
the purchaser." In this regard, a thief is not regarded as a reasonably foreseeable user contem-
plated by the drafters of the Restatement. Note that (D) is wrong because Tomlin loses due to
his status as an unforeseeable user not because of his misuse of the vehicle.

(B) As noted earlier, practically every Multistate question will test a fineline distinction
or nuance. In the area of Torts it is imperative to distinguish between strict liability and neg-
ligence actions. Here, Driver is suing for strict liability. As such statement I is inapplicable
because it addresses the breach of duty requirement for negligence. By the same token, state-
ment III is a non-factor because contributory negligence is not a defense in strict liability
actions. As such, choice (B) is correct because it is necessary that ACC be engaged in the busi-
ness of selling autos to be held strictly liable.

(C) A product may be unreasonably dangerous if there is an inadequate warning
regarding its use. The warning on the shampoo bottle was adequate. American manufac-
turers are not required to place warnings in different languages on products sold within the
United States. Choice (D) is wrong because assumption of risk applies when the plaintiff
subjectively is aware of the risk and consciously disregards it. In the present hypo, Nikita
was unaware of the risk because she didn't understand English.

(A) A popular Multistate testing area deals with negligent misrepresentation. Prosser
notes that "a representation made with an honest belief in its truth may still be negligent,
because of lack of reasonable care in ascertaining the facts, or in the manner of expression or
absence of the skill and competence required by a particular business or profession", Prosser,
pg. 704. In this regard, misrepresentation frequently occurs in ordinary negligence actions for
personal injuries or property damage, in the form of misleading words or acts, or non-disclo-
sure of known facts, and the courts have not found it necessary to distinguish it in any way
from any other negligence. Suzy read the sign which expressly stated Aspen's slopes were the
"smoothest and safest" in Colorado and she was skiing "along the outer edge of the ski trail"
at the time of her injury. Aspen will be liable based on a theory of negligent misrepresenta-
tion. Choice (A) is correct. Note that choice (B) is incorrect. Aspen's duty was to warn of
known dangerous natural and artificial conditions. The tree root that injured Suzy was con-
cealed by snow.

40. (B) There are five elements required to establish a claim for deceit: (1) there must be a
material misrepresentation, (2) the defendant must act with scienter, (3) the defendant must
intend to induce reliance, (4) the plaintiff must justifiably rely on the misrepresentation, and
(5) the plaintiff must suffer pecuniary damages. The key to this question is understanding the
element of scienter. This element is satisfied in two situations: (1) when the defendant lies, or
(2) when the defendant makes a statement of fact not knowing whether it is true or false. Here,
Prof stated that Grad had never been convicted of a theft crime even though she was aware

TORTS	

10

posabze

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

41.

42.

43.

44.

that she did not know the answer to this question. Therefore, Prof acted with scienter when
she stated that Grad had never been convicted of a theft crime. Choice (C) is not correct
because, while much of Prof's statement consists of opinion which would not be actionable,
Prof stated a fact when she asserted that Grad had never been convicted of a crime. Choice
(D) is incorrect because the requirement is that the defendant act with scienter, and intention-
ally lying is just one way of satisfying this element.

(C) First of all, choice (A) is incorrect, and Disease Care's motion will be denied.
According to Prosser, when defendant's conduct involves mere physical discomfort or mental
annoyance, there is somewhat more difficulty in deciding when the interference is substantial
and unreasonable. Probably a good working rule would be that the annoyance cannot be
unreasonable interference until it results in a depreciation in the market or rental value of the
land. Here, the facts state that McMartin will suffer severe economic loss if the AIDS clinic
is constructed. The Multistate "distractor" is the children's unfounded fear of contracting
AIDS. In this regard, Prosser states that 'fears and feelings common to members of the com-
munity are to be considered; and the dread of contagion from a pesthouse may make it a nui-
sance even though there is no foundation in scientific fact."  Law of Torts, 2d Edition, pg. 629.
Choice (D) is a very good private nuisance answer, but the language "if, and only if" make it
too narrow. Choice (C) is preferred because a motion for summary judgment will be granted
only where no material issue of fact exists. The statement McMartin realized he would "suf-
fer severe economic loss" presents a triable issue, thus making choice (C) a correct statement.

(B) The best methodology for answering multiple-choice questions is  by process of elim-
ination. This is a "tricky" Torts question because Rula is asserting an "action" which could be
either trespass or nuisance. Thus, it is necessary to carefully read each answer choice in
addressing both possible causes of action. Choice (A) is wrong because "coming to the nui-
sance" is never an absolute defense in a nuisance action but rather is merely one factor the
court will take into consideration. Choice (C) is incorrect because  trespass requires the entry
or invasion of a tangible thing or person.  Although invisible gases and microscopic particles
will suffice, Prosser states it is "not a trespass to project light, noise, or vibrations across or
onto the land of another." Law of Torts, pg. 71. Choice (D) is wrong because in nuisance
actions the disturbance must be annoying, offensive or inconvenient to a  "normal person in
the particular locality." In this regard, Prosser states that "the plaintiff cannot, by devoting his
own land to an unusually sensitive use," recover for nuisance. Law of Torts, pg. 628.
Therefore, choice (B) is the best answer because normal persons in the community are not
offended by the sound waves because they are not audible to people.

(D) A public nuisance is an act by the defendant that obstructs, inconveniences or damages
the enjoyment or use of common property. A private plaintiff may only maintain an action if he
suffers an injury peculiar to that suffered by the general public. For Fred to prevail in a public
nuisance action he must prove that he suffers a peculiar harm that differs from the harm suffered
by the general public. In which case, Fred must prove special damages to support his claim.

(C) Since choice (C) is not an example of slander per se, Henry would need to prove
special damages in order to recover against Ron in defamation. Choice (C) is not slander per
se, because Ron is not accusing Henry of committing a crime. Instead, Ron is making the
statement that Henry would have stabbed his mother if she had not been killed in an auto
accident. The other three answer choices provide students with examples of slander per se,
wherein the plaintiff can recover damages without proving that he has suffered any special
harm at all. The cause of action is complete when the plaintiff proves that such a type of
slander has been published about him and that he has suffered "actual injury" as a result of
the defamatory statement. It is important for students to note the 4 per se categories for either
slander or libel. Sections 571-574 of the  Restatement 2d, Torts provides that "an action for

postbzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

TORTS

slander will lie without proof of special harm only where: (1) The words impute a criminal
offense which, if committed in the place of publication, (a) would be punishable by death or
imprisonment or (b) regarded by public opinion as involving moral turpitude. (2) The words
impute to the plaintiff a presently existing venereal or other loathsome and communicable
disease. (3) The words impute to the plaintiff conduct, characteristics, or a condition
incompatible with the proper conduct of his lawful business, trade, profession or with his
public or private office, whether honorary or for profit. (4) The words impute to a woman
unchastity.

(C) The attached question is based on the facts of  Roche v. Egan, 433 A.2d 757 (Maine
Supreme Judicial Ct. Aug. 12, 1981). Roger will want to eliminate his liability for defamation
or at least want to point to facts that will subject him to a lower standard (i.e. the standard that
applies to defamation of a public official). Choice (A) is wrong. Even though there may be no
implied malice, there can still be defamation of a public official under New York Times v.
Sullivan for actual malice. In addition, (A) refers to slander, and the written communication
in this fact situation, if defamatory, is libel. Choice (B) is wrong on the principle of law stated.
As stated in Roche, the U.S. Supreme Court has stopped short of the conclusion that all pub-
lic employees are public officials. Even if such were the case, that would still not mean that
Rusty may not recover any damages. Choice (C) is the best answer. These are facts Roger
would want to point out to support his claim that a police patrolman is a public official to
whom the Times v. Sullivan  standard applies. Choice (D) is wrong. There can still be damages
to reputation, nominal damages, punitive damages, etc.

(D) This same defamation issue has been tested on the last two administrations of the
MBE. It is important to remember that the defamatory meaning of a statement must be
communicated. Thus, the utterance must be understood by the third person. Accordingly,
Prosser notes that "words spoken in a foreign tongue are not actionable unless they are
heard by one who understands the language."  Torts, pg. 798. Since Shannon didn't
understand the Spanish translation, choice (D) is the best answer.

(D) This is a very typical Multistate Torts example where most students will narrow the
correct answer down to choices (C) and (D). Choice (C) deals with  slander per se,  whereas
choice (D) relates to defamation of a public figure with malice. First, let's review the 4 types
of slander per se which are actionable without proof of special damages (since injury to rep-
utation is presumed):  (1) defamatory statement adversely reflecting on plaintiff's trade, busi-
ness or profession; (2) defamatory statement imputing loathsome disease; (3) defamatory
statement imputing unchastity to a woman; (4) defamatory statement charging the plaintiff is
guilty of a crime involving moral turpitude. Here, Brothers' statement charging Michaelson
with being a "poor administrator" may be actionable without proof of  damages.  However,
choice (D) is preferred because it addresses the required elements of both  fault and falsity  (i.e.
malice standard),  rather than the issue of damage only.

(C) Remember that invasion of right of privacy  is not a single tort but comprises the fol-
lowing four distinct causes of action: (1) appropriation, (2) false light,  (3) public disclosure
In order to recover for
of private facts, and (4) intrusions on one's seclusion and solitude. 
public disclosure, the facts disclosed must be private facts, and not public ones. In this hypo,
the picture was a matter of public concern because it showed Olivia and Reese, as hotel guests,
outside witnessing the fire. Prosser further states that a defense to this type of action is
whether there is a legitimate public interest in having the information made available. Clearly,
the newspaper's coverage of the hotel fire was a newsworthy event. Choice (C) is thus correct.

45.

46.

47.

48.

TORTS	

12

pssabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Torts Variation:

Willie "Say Hay" Maples was a famous all-star player for
the Boston Braves. In 1936 Willie set a professional baseball
record by hitting safely in 82 consecutive games. After Willie
retired in 1942, he was one of the original inductees in base-
ball's Hall of Fame. After his retirement, however, Willie
became a recluse and refused to be interviewed or have his
picture taken. Forty years later in 1982, Red Smyth, a sports
writer for "Sports Illustrated" magazine, decided to write a
story about Maples' illustrious career. Smyth contacted
Maples on numerous occasions, but the retired Hall of
Famer refused to be interviewed. One afternoon, Smyth
went to Maples' home and rang the doorbell. When Maples
opened the door, Smyth took his picture without permission.
The picture, though it was never published, depicted Maples
as a decrepit, enfebbled old man. If Maples brings suit
against Smyth and "Sports Illustrated" for invasion of right to
privacy, the plaintiff will most likely

(A) recover, since Smyth's actions intruded on Maples

privacy

(B) recover, since Maples did not consent to have his

picture taken

(C) not recover, because Maples had been a public

figure

(D) not recover, because the picture was not published

Answer: (A)

49.

50.

(A)	
Appropriation is defined as the unauthorized use by defendant of plaintiff's picture
or name for defendant's commercial advantage.  Clearly, Mogan is liable for invasion of right
to privacy by appropriating Jordan's picture in his commercial advertising. In all likelihood,
Mogan is not liable for negligent misrepresentation which requires a false statement inducing
reliance on the part of the plaintiff. Mogan did not engage in any false representation.
Similarly, statement II is inapplicable because negligent infliction of emotional distress
requires extreme and outrageous conduct resulting in physical harm or bodily injury. Mogan's
conduct was not necessarily extreme and outrageous. Furthermore, Jordan was embarrassed
but did not suffer physical harm or injury.

Here's an extremely difficult Multistate example which requires students to differen-
(A)	
tiate between defamation and invasion of privacy. Although Kosale falsely depicted Marvel's
accomplishments, he did not really defame him.  Defamatory material is that which tends to
lower the reputation of a person by impugning his (or her) honesty, integrity, or sanity, or by
diminishing the esteem, respect or confidence in which the person is held. By enhancing
Marvel's exploits, Kosale did not lower or diminish his reputation. On the other hand, Kosale
would be liable for invasion of right to privacy by casting Marvel in a "false light." In order
to establish a prima facie case for "false light," the following elements must be proven:
(1) publication of facts which place the plaintiff in a false light; (2) the false light is objec-
tionable to a reasonable person; and (3) malice on the part of defendant where the published
material is in the public interest.

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

TORTS

Torts Outline

Outline Chart

INTENTIONAL
TORTS

NEGLIGENCE

STRICT
LIABILITY

(I) Products
Liability

Restatement of Torts
§ 402 A
Defective Products

(2) Abnormally
Dangerous
Activities or
Ultrahazardous
Activities

(3) Wild Animals or
Animals of a
Dangerous
Propensity

Assault

Battery

False Imprisonment

Trespass to Land

a. Duty
b. Breach of Duty
(reasonable
person
standard)
c. Proximately
Caused
d. Injury

Trespass to Chattels

Res Ipsa Loquitur

Conversion

Intentional Infliction
of Mental Distress

Rescue Doctrine

Cause in Fact

V.
Legal/Proximate
Cause

DUTIES OF
CARE OWED
Invitees
Licensees
Trespassers

Apportionment of
liability;

Contribution
Indemnity

DEFAMATION
V.
INVASION OF
RIGHT TO
PRIVACY

DEFAMATION =

Libel — Written
Slander — Spoken

INVASION OF
PRIVACY =

(1) Intrusion of

One's Seclusion
+ Solitude
Doesn't Require
Publication

(2) Placing the

Plaintiff in False
Light in the
Public Eye

(3) Misappropriation
of Plaintiff's
Name or
Likeness for
Defendant's
Commercial
Advantage

(4) Publication of
Private Facts
About the
Plaintiff by the
Defendant

NUISANCE
V.
TRESPASS

NUISANCE
Substantial and
Unreasonable
Interference with
One's Use and
Enjoyment of the
Property

TRESPASS
Unpermitted
Intrusion or Entry
onto the Exclusive
Possession
of Someone's Land

(You Enter or Cause
Third Party or
Thing to Go onto
Someone's Land
Without Permission)

TORTS

14

pubs

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

TORTS	
Pttahr. MIG 1	

MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

BASIC ISSUE-SPOTTING APPROACH:
LOOK AT TYPE OF INJURY

Physical Injury to the Person

Owners and Occupiers of Land	

Wild animals

Domestic animals with known dangerous propensities

Battery

Negligence	

Engaging in abnormally dangerous activity

Strict Liability

Workers' Compensation

No-Fault Automobile Insurance

Products Liability

Public Misrepresentation of material fact

Express warranty

Negligence

Strict Products Liability

Implied Warranty

Assault

False Imprisonment

Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress

Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress

Libel

Slander

Intrusion

Commercial Misappropriation

Public Disclosure of Private Facts ("True" Privacy)

False Light

Defamation — 

Invasion of Privacy

Trespass to Land

Trespass to Chattels

Conversion

Nuisance

Negligence

Disparagement

Interference with Contractual Relations

Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage

Malicious Prosecution

Abuse of Process

Fraud, Misrepresentation, and Deceit

Negligent Misrepresentation

Emotional Injury

Injury to Property

Economic Injury

*The various torts do not necessarily protect only those types of injury under which they are listed in this MIG, but the type of injury sustained is often the key to determining which torts are
involved in the question.

MULTI b	

MUSTATE SPECIALIST

TORTS	
MIG 2	

Multistate Issue Graph

INTENTIONAL TORTS:
PERSONAL AND EMOTIONAL INJURY

BATTERY

ACT — must be volitional act
INTENT — to cause a harmful or offensive contact to someone (Note: For all intentional torts, intent includes (1) conscious desire  that result occur, (2) knowledge
that result will occur, and (3) knowledge that result is substantially likely to occur)"

HARM — act must result in contact of a harmful or offensive nature

DEFENSES

CONSENT

SELF-DEFENSE
(same rules as in
Criminal Law)

DEFENSE OF
OTHERS

DEFENSE OF
PROPERTY

Informed Consent — P must know all relevant facts for consent to be valid

Scope of Consent —  D must not cause a touching different in kind than which P could reasonably
expect

D must not be initial aggressor

D must reasonably conclude that force is necessary to protect himself from imminent bodily harm

Amount of force used must be reasonable; in some jurisdictions, D must retreat before using_
deadly force

Majority — D stands in the shoes of person defended (that person must have had right to use force
in self-defense)

Minority — D must reasonably believe that person defended was privileged to use force

Must make prior demand that D cease (or show that demand would be futile) before using force

May never use deadly force

ASSAULT

INTENT — to cause someone to be apprehensive of receiving a harmful or offensive contact*

HARM — resulting apprehension of an imminent harmful or offensive contact

ACT — must be volitional act

DEFENSES — all battery defenses

ACT — must be volitional act

FALSE IMPRIS-
ONMENT

INTENT — to confine someone
RESULT — actual confinement of P; reasonable means of escape does  not include
HARM — knowledge of confinement or injury resulting from confinement

Having to leave property

Dangerous means of escape

Unreasonably embarrassing means of escape

DEFENSES

All battery defenses

Lawful arrest

Shopkeepers Privilege —  merchant may detain a suspected shoplifter for a reasonable time if he has probable cause that
P is stealing and the shopkeeper does not use excessive force (Shopkeeper is still liable for actual injuries)

INTENTIONAL INFLICTION
OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS

ACT — extreme and outrageous conduct

INTENT — to cause severe emotional upset to P or recklessness with regard to P's upset

HARM — resulting emotional distress of a significant nature

DEFENSES

All battery defenses

D's lack of knowledge of P's unusual susceptibility to emotional upset

*NOTE: If D has the intent to commit (1) battery, (2) assault, (3) false imprisonment, (4) trespass to land, or (5) trespass to chattels and ends up causing an injury protected by any other of these five torts,

the intent requirement is satisfied.






Pisan'

TE SPECIALIST

MULT	

TORTS
MIG 3

Multistate Issue Graph

ACT — must be volitional act

INTENT — to do act which results in trespass*

INTENTIONAL TORTS:
INJURY TO PROPERTY

TRESPASS TO
LAND

HARM — invasion of P's right to use and enjoy her land; no damages need be proven, and once D has committed a trespass he is strictly liable for all
injuries to P's land, buildings, and chattels

DEFENSES

ACT — must be volitional act

Consent of person in lawful possession

Entry to reclaim D's own property on P's land

Entry under public or private necessity

Entry to abate public or private nuisance

TRESPASS TO
CHATTELS

INTENT — to do act which results in trespass* 	

Injury to chattel

HARM — interference with P's use and enjoyment of his personal propert

REMEDY — diminution of value (or cost of repair) and/or reasonable rental value

Denying P possession

DEFENSES — all battery defenses

ACT — must be volitional act

CONVERSION

HARM — substantial interference with P's rights to use and enjoy his chattel

INTENT — to assert rights of ownership over chattel which in fact belongs to P

REMEDY — P may require D to pay full market value of chattel instead of returning it along with dam-
ages	

Consent

DEFENSES

Necessity

*NOTE: If D has the intent to commit (1) battery, (2) assault, (3) false imprisonment, (4) trespass to land, or (5) trespass to chattels and ends up causing an injury protected by any other of

these five torts, the intent requirement is satisfied.


TORTS	
PirMULTISTATE SPECIALIST	 MIG 4

Multistate Issue Graph

DEFAMATION

DEFAMATORY STATEMENT — one which subjects P to hatred, contempt, or ridicule (1st Restatement) or which lowers the esteem in which P is held by third parties (2nd Restatement)

OF OR CONCERNING P — someone must
recognize that the statement is about this
particular P

P must be a living human being

Group defamation

Small group (less than 25) — all members may have action even if statement is not all-inclusive

Medium group (between 25 and 150) —  may give each member a cause of action if all-inclusive

Large group (over 150) — no member may sue even if statement is all-inclusive

PUBLICATION — at least one third party must hear the statement and understand its defamatory nature; D must be at least negligent with regard to the publication

Special Damages — pecuniary loss resulting from a third party's response to the defamatory statement

PROOF OF SPECIAL DAMAGES OR
EXCEPTION (a prima facie case
requirement, not a rule of damages)

Slander per se — oral statements relating to: (1) incompetence in trade or profession, (2) present loathsome disease, (3)
commission of serious crime, or (4) lack of chastity of a woman

Exceptions

Libel (written statements) —  in some
states all libel is actionable without proof
of special damages, but common law
required special damages unless libel is

Truth must go to defamatory sting

On its face — (no innuendo or external knowledge is required to
understand the statement's defamatory nature)  or

Per quod — (innuendo or external knowledge is required to understand
the statement's defamatory nature) if defamation relates to a slander
per se category

Absolute Privileges (not defeated by even spite or knowledge of falsity) —  (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceedings, (3) other
official statements of governmental officials, (4) equal time broadcasts, and (5) communications between spouses

Common Law Qualified Privileges (defeated by spite or ill will, knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of truth, and, perhaps,
negligence) — (1) statements in D's own interest, (2) statements in the interest of third persons, (3) statements in the interest of the public,
(4) reports of public proceedings, and (5) fair comment opinions

DEFENSES

Public Officials, Candidates for Public Office, and Well-Known Public Figures —  must prove
"malice" as defined by NY Times v Sullivan (that D knew statement was false or acted in reckless
disregard of truth)

First Amendment
Qualified Privileges

Limited Public Figures — ordinary persons who voluntarily inject themselves into a public
controversy are treated as public figures if alleged defamation relates to their position in the
controversy but are treated as private persons if defamation concerns other matters

Private Persons — must prove negligence with regard to truth when defendant is a member of the
media; jurisdictions split when D is a private person

DAMAGES (once prima facie case,
including existence of some special
damages or exceptions, is made)

All special damages (defined above), including lost customers and lost employment

Damage to P's reputation

Damage to P's feelings, including medical bills attributable to P's emotional distress

Punitive damages (when appropriate)

Note: When First Amendment qualified privilege applies, only actual damages (i.e., those proven with reasonable certainty by P) and
not punitive damages may be recovered unless P proves NY  Times malice

TORTS
MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST	 MIG 5

Poirsbo

Multistate Issue Graph

PRIVACY

INTRUSION — violation of P's rights to solitude in manner objectionable to a reasonable person

COMMERCIAL MISAPPROPRIATION —  commercial use of P's name or likeness without P's consent

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
OF PRIVATE FACTS
("True" Privacy)

Facts revealed must be offensive to a reasonable person

Truth is not a defense

Revealing things in public records (e.g., conviction of crimes) is privileged (some states hold otherwise if disclosure related to a
transaction very remote in time)

Newsworthiness is a defense

FALSE LIGHT — statement which gives the public a misleading impression of P (even if statement is technically true)

possbie

SPECIALIST

MULT	

DUTY

STANDARDS OF
CARE

TORTS
MIG 6

Multistate Issue Graph

NEGLIGENCE

Cardozo — no duty owed to persons outside geographic zone of danger at the time of D's negligence

Forseeable Plaintiff

Andrews — if D has breached a duty to anyone, duty is owed to everyone

Rescuers are always forseeable Ps

Omission — as a general rule, there is not
duty to act or aid another. The exceptions
include:

Reasonable Person Standard — what would
a reasonable person have done in those
circumstances. Balance (1) likelihood of
harm and (2) gravity of potential injury
against (3) social utility of D's actual
conduct and (4) burden of adequate
precautions. Always state what D should
have done.

Standards for Professionals (Malpractice) —
the minimum common skill of members in
good standing in the profession. Expert
testimony is required except when
negligence is obvious

Statutes — if statute establishes civil liability,
it conclusively establishes standard. If
criminal statute ask (1) is P in a class that the
statute was designed to protect (2) was he to
be protected from this type of harm; if
answer to both questions is "yes" then

Duty to alleviate consequences of his own act endangers others (perhaps even if D's act was not

even negligent)

contractual duty

Duty to control others (e.g., children)

innkeepers and guest

Special relationship between P and D
including:

common carriers and passengers

school and pupils

Undertaking to act — may not abandon an attempted rescue if D leaves P's in a worse condition

NOTE: Always consider cause-in-fact issue in all omission problems

Mental characteristics of adult defendant irrelevant

Physical characteristics of adult defendant may be considered

Children must act as would children of the same age, experience, and intelligence except that they
are measured by adult standards when they are engaged in adult activities

Emergency situation will lower D's standard if, but only if, D's own negligence did not cause

emergency

Community custom is relevant to establishing what is reasonable, but it is not determinative

Locality Rule — at common law, conduct of general practitioners was measured by what others in
the same or similar localities would do (today, locality rule is simply a factor in most states)

Specialists — held to national standard

Negligence Per Se (majority rule) —  D may not introduce evidence as to reasonableness,
although she may argue for an implied exception (i.e., because of the unique circumstances of this
case, what she did was inherently more reasonable than what the statute required)

Presumption of Negligence — D may argue that his conduct was nevertheless reasonable
despite the statute, but has the burden of proving this

Evidence of Negligence — violation merely helps P establish his prima facie case (Note: Most
jurisdictions follow this rule for violation of local ordinances.)

Caveat — under any of these views the issues of cause-in-fact, proximate cause, and compensible
damage issues are the same as in any other negligence action. Contributory negligence and
assumption of risk issues are also the same except when statute was designed to protect P from

his own folly

Special
Standards

Automotive Guests —  under "guest statutes" existing in many states, an automobile driver is liable to a non-paying guest only if the
driver was reckless

Owners and Occupiers of Land (See MIG 7)

Innkeepers and Common Carriers — owe "highest" duty of care

(continued)

posaby

MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST

NEGLIGENCE
(CONTINUED)

Normally, simply a question of fact 	

BREACH

Res Ipsa Loquitur — circumstantial evidence of negligence
arises when

Accident is one that normally does not occur in the absence of
negligence

Instrumentality causing injury is under D's exclusive control or D is
responsible for all others in control

P must introduce evidence removing any inference of his own fault

Concurrent Conduct — even conduct which is not negligent by itself will be actionable if it combines with similar conduct of others if the other's
conduct was foreseeable

"But for" Test — normally, ask if injury would have occurred but for that aspect of D's conduct which was negligent

CAUSE-IN-FACT
(Actual Cause)

Substantial Factor Test (or Superabundant Cause) — when two or more causes concur to cause an event but either alone would have been sufficient
to cause injury, each is a cause-in-fact if it is a substantial factor in causing the injury

When two or more Ds are negligent but P cannot prove whose negligence caused the injury, court may shift burden of disproving causation to Ds

PROXIMATE CAUSE
(Legal Cause)

Look for cause-in-fact issues in all omission problems.

Spotting the Issue — look for

Freakish results

Multiple persons or factors contributing to the injury

Minor negligence causing tremendous injury

Basic Rules

Direct Injury Cases (i.e., there are no inter-
vening causes between D's negligence and
P's injury)

Injury to Persons — all direct causes are proximate

Injury to Property	

Traditional View — all direct causes are proximate
Trend — was this injury a foreseeable result of D's
conduct?

Indirect Injury Cases — was this injury a foreseeable result of D's conduct (even if the exact way in which the injury
occurred was unforeseeable)?

Subsequent negligence, including medical malpractice, is always foreseeable

Subsequent criminal acts or intentional tortious conduct are not normally foreseeable, but may be foreseeable if that risk is
what made D's conduct negligent in the first place

Decided Cases

An attempted rescue is always foreseeable

Acts of nature are generally unforeseeable

Suicide is unforeseeable unless it was the result of an uncontrollable impulse caused by D's negligence

Only a few states (including Florida) still require
Emotional Injury — recoverable only if there is some accompanying physical injury 
impact

DAMAGES —	

Pure economic injury not protectible by negligence cause of action

Trend is to allow recovery even if emotional injury
was not caused by P's concern for her own safety




TORTS
PAULTISTA TS SPECIALIST	 MIG 7

Multistate Issue Graph

DEFENSES TO NEGLIGENCE

Normally, the issue of P's contributory negligence is controlled by the same rules as those governing D's negligence, except that the mental defects of an

adult P may be considered

Imputed Contributory Negligence — as a general rule, the negligence of a third party will be imputed to P only if P would have been vicariously liable for

the third party's negligence if P had been the defendant

CONTRIBUTORY
NEGLIGENCE

Traditional View — P's action 	
is totally barred except that

Effect of a finding of
contributory negligence

P's ordinary negligence will be ignored
if D's conduct was willful and wanton
or reckless

Last Clear Chance — P's negligence
may be irrelevant if D had the last clear
chance to avoid the danger created by
P's prior negligence (including the
actual ability to avoid the accident)

If D sees a helpless P, D had the last
clear chance

If D sees a negligently inattentive P and
should have known that P was unaware
of the danger, D has the last clear
chance

If D should have seen a helpless P, D
has the last clear chance under the
Restatement, but not in states following
the doctrine of discovered peril

If D should have seen a negligently inat-
tentive P but doesn't, D does not have
the last clear chance

Comparative Negligence — most states now
simply reduce P's recovery by the percentage
that his own negligence contributed to the
injury. Apply comparative negligence on the
MBE unless the facts state otherwise.

Traditional View — a complete defense

Pure (including Alaska, California, Florida, Michigan, and
New York) — P always collects something from a negligent D

Restricted (including Massachusetts, Minnesota, and
Pennsylvania) — P can collect only if D was at least as
negligent as P

"Willful and wanton" rule and Last Clear Chance doctrine (as dis-
cussed above) are inapplicable

ASSUMPTION OF RISK — when P actually understands
the risk to his safety and voluntarily subjects himself to it

Comparative Negligence Jurisdictions — assumption of risk is normally treated as an aspect of contributory negligence (and is
thus only a partial bar), but may still be a total bar when D's only duty was to warn (as in certain landowner and products liability

cases)


TORTS
Pinbo MIG 8

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

DUTIES OWED BY
OWNERS AND OCCUPIERS OF LAND

Adult Trespassers (those who enter the
land without permission)

D must use due care in affirmative acts if he knows that
trespasser is present

If D knows that trespassers are frequently on his land, he
must post warnings of known dangers

Licencees — those entering with permission,
but not for the purpose for which the
property is maintained (includes social
guests, firefighters, and police officers)

D must warn of known dangers (or fix if extremely
dangerous)

TRADITIONAL VIEW — look at status of P

Invitees — those entering with permission
and for the purpose for which the land is
maintained

Child Trespassers — D is liable if a child
is injured due to a dangerous condition of
D's land if:

D must make reasonable inspection for dangerous
conditions

Must warn of all dangers of which D knows or could have
discovered by a reasonable inspection (and must fix it if
very dangerous)

D knows or has reason to know that children are likely to
trespass

D knows or has reason to know that condition is
dangerous to children

Children are unable to appreciate dangerousness of
condition

The utility of the condition and burdens of protecting
children are slight in comparison to the danger

Note: Child need not have been attracted onto the land
by the dangerous condition

RECENT TREND — some states (including California and New York) have replaced the above rules with ordinary negligence principles (i.e., D must act as a reasonable person would

considering all of the circumstances). A few others (including Massachusetts and Minnesota) have done the same with regard to those lawfully on the land (i.e., licencees and invitees), but
still retain the traditional views as to trespassers.

TORTS
Plod". MIG 9

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

PRODUCTS LIABILITY

MISREPRESENTATION
Under Restatement 402(B)

Gravamen — public misrepresentation of material fact
Possible Defendants — any commercial seller
Possible Plaintiffs — anyone relying on the representation

Defense

Assumption of risk

Misuse of product

Gravamen — breach of express warranty
Possible Defendants — any seller (liability to remote purchasers governed by UCC 2-318 [discussed below])

EXPRESS WARRANTY
Under UCC 2-313

Possible Plaintiffs	
(UCC 2-318)

Alternative A (majority) — buyer, members of his household, and guests in his home (but privity requirement may be eased by caselaw)
Alternatives B and C — anyone expected to use, consumer, or be affected by the goods
NOTE: liability under Alternative A and B is limited to personal injuries

Defenses

Assumption of risk

Misuse of Product

Failure to give prompt notice of breach to D

"Disclaimer" can explain, but cannot cancel express warranty

Gravamen — breach of duty of care (same elements as ordinary negligence, but warning of danger may be sufficient)

Possible Defendants	

liable for own negligence in handling

Manufacturers — liable for design defects and own negligence in handling

NEGLIGENCE

Retailers and Wholesalers

liable for negligence of predecessor
when there is a duty to inspect as when 

Product comes in damaged container

Prior problems with other products

Manufacturer of dubious reputation

STRICT PRODUCTS
LIABILITY (or Absolute
Liability in Tort) under
Restatement 402(A)

IMPLIED WARRANTY
under UCC 2-314 to
2-318

Possible Plaintiffs — anyone foreseeably endangered
Contributory negligence 

Defenses

Gravamen

Assumption of risk

Defective product

Possible Defendants — anyone engaged in commercial distribution
Possible Plaintiffs — anyone endangered by defect

Defect must make product unreasonably dangerous in majority

Defenses

Breach of Implied
Warranty of

Assumption of risk

Misuse of product

Merchantability — goods must be of fair average quality and fit for ordinary purpose

Fitness for Particular Purpose — goods must be fit for special use if buyer relied on seller's judgement in recommending the product

Possible Defendants

Fitness for Particular Purpose — any seller with special knowledge

Merchantability — merchants in goods of that kind

Liability to remote purchasers governed by UCC 2-318

Possible Plaintiffs — same as express warranty (above)

(UCC 2-318)

Defenses — same as express warranty (above)

Psnbira 

TORT

Multistate Issue Graph

OTHER BASES OF LIABILITY :
INJURY TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY

STRICT LIABILITY —
D may be liable even if
he used the utmost
care

NUISANCE

Animals

All injuries caused by wild animals

Injuries caused by domestic animals if D has notice of the animal's dangerous propensities

Abnormally Dangerous Activities

Defective Products (see MIG 9)

Harm is probable or potential injury is serious
D is unable to eliminate risk even if he uses reasonable care
Activity is uncommon or inappropriate in this area
Value to community is outweighed by the danger

Contributory negligence is no defense, to actions above, but assumption of the risk is

Special statutory forms of strict — 
liability

Worker's Compensation

No-Fault Automobile Insurance

Unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of land of others

Normally, D's interference must be at least negligent, but strict liability
may apply if D's activity is abnormally dangerous

There must be substantial and unreasonable interference

Since the remedy sought is normally an injunction, one must balance the
equities (including a consideration of who was there first) and consider
the equitable defenses of !aches and unclean hands and other equitable
doctrines (e.g., adequacy of the damage remedy)

Private Nuisance — interference with P's right to use and enjoy
his own land

Public Nuisance — an act obstructing, inconveniencing, or
damaging the rights of the general public. Normally, action is
brought by a public official, but private person may maintain this
action if his own land was adversely affected.



Priam'

ISTATE SPECIALIST	

MULT	

TORTS	
MIG 11

Multistate Issue Graph

False assertion
of fact

OTHER BASES OF LIABILITY:
ECONOMIC INJURY

Unlike defamation cases, P must always prove falsity (as opposed to D proving truth as defense)

Opinions and "puffing" are not assertions of fact

DISPARAGEMENT
(or Injurious Falsehood)

Publication — at least one third party must hear and understand the statement

Special Damages — P must prove pecuniary injury caused by a third party's response to the statement

All economic interests are protectible

Intent — P must be at least reckless with regard to both truth and the possibility of injury

Defenses — the absolute and qualified privileges in defamation all apply (see JIG 4)

Must create substantial difficulties for P in getting the benefits of an existing contract (contract need not be breached)

INTERFERENCE WITH CON-
TRACTUAL RELATIONS

D must know of existence of a contract between P and another

D must have purpose to interfere with the contractual relationship

INTERFERENCE WITH PROSPECTIVE ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE (or Prima Facie Tort) — essentially the same as Interference with Contractual Relations (above), but even non-contractual rights
(e.g., right to inherit under a parent's will) may be protected if not too speculative

Defenses — any proper means to attain a justifiable end (e.g., to protect D's legitimate interests or those of the public or third persons)

MALICIOUS
PROSECUTION

ABUSE OF F	
PROCESS

DECEIT (FRAUD)

NEGLIGENT MISREP-
RESENTATION

P must initiate a civil proceeding against P or cause a criminal proceeding to be initiated against her

No probable cause that P is in fact liable (or guilty)

Malicious intent (i.e., not to resolve a legitimate controversy or bring a criminal to justice)

Allegedly improper action must have terminated in the favor of the present plaintiff

Initiation of civil or criminal proceedings against P

Malicious intent (same as in Malicious Prosecution [above])

Prior action need not have been terminated in the favor of the present P

Misrepresentation of a past or present material fact

D must know that representation is false or act in reckless disregard for truth

Subjective intent that P rely on the misrepresentation

Actual and reasonable reliance by P

P must prove actual injury

D must be in the business of supplying information to others

Negligent misstatement of material fact

Actual and justifiable reliance by P

Actual injury

CONTRACTORS — liable for own tortious acts even after acceptance of the job

SUPPLIERS OF LIQUOR — no liability at common law, but may be liable by statute < 

Civil Statutes — some states hold sellers strictly liable in tort if injury results from sale

Criminal statutes making it illegal to serve minors or those obviously intoxicated may be adopted to impose civil liability (see MIG 6)




TORTS	
Ptnbs. MIG 12

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

MISCELLANEOUS CONCEPTS

In the Family 	

 Spouses no longer viable for each others torts 	

Parents liable for torts of children only if  

Statute (limited liability for designated torts in some states)

Negligence in entrusting dangerous instrumentalities or in
controlling child's known dangerous propensities

VICARIOUS LIABILITY

Ownership of Vehicle

Family Purpose Doctrine — use by family members for a family purpose

Owner Consent Statutes — anyone using vehicle with consent (if statute so provides)

Negligent Entrustment — when P knew or should have known of the person's unsafe driving

Respondeat Superior — a "master" (e.g., an employer) is liable for acts of his "servant" if committed within the scope of employment. D is not normally
liable for torts of independent contractors

Joint Enterprises — when two or more persons act in concert

Non-Delegable Duties — one engaging in inherently dangerous work (e.g., excavation) is liable for the fault of even independent contractors

Governmental units have generally waived sovereign immunity for ministerial functions (e.g., the maintenance of street lights), but not for decision-
making functions (e.g., where street light should be placed)

IMMUNITY

Charitable immunity has been generally abolished or limited

Inter-Family Immunities

Spouses — generally, may now sue each other for damage to property, but not for personal injury

Parent-Child — may sue for injury to property; may sue for personal injury in some states

Employer and Fellow Employee Immunity — when the employment relationship is covered by a Worker's Compensation Act, that remedy is exclusive
and even wanton acts will not give rise to a lawsuit

No-Fault Insurance — no-fault insurance acts bar or limit suits in at least some circumstances

INJURIES TO ANOTHER

To Spouse — either spouse may recover for expenses incurred on the other's behalf; at common law, only H could recover for lost services,
companionship, and conjugal affection, but this discrimination is rapidly disappearing

To Children — parent in custody may recover expenses incurred and loss of services

SURVIVAL — today, most actions (except for defamation and some actions for emotional injury) survive P's death; all actions survive D's death

Death Statutes (New-Cause-of-Action Theory) — decedent's dependents may sue for expenses 	
incurred and for the loss of support	

WRONGFUL
DEATH

Survival Statutes — decedent's cause of action is simply vested in his estat 	

Some states allow both kinds of actions described above or combine elements of both

Defenses — D may raise any defense she has
against the claimant and those which she could have
raised against the decedent

Recovery is generally limited to the survivors' own
pecuniary losses

Defenses — D may only raise defenses she had
against the decedent

Recovery limited to injuries suffered by the decedent
(expenses, loss of earnings, pain and suffering, etc.)

(over)



poisbe

MUMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MISCELLANEOUS CONCEPTS
(CONTINUED)

Personal Injury — P may generally recover for	

Loss of earning
Medical expenses
Pain and suffering
Humiliation, hurt feeling, damage to reputation, and other psychic injury if proven with reasonable certainty

DAMAGES

 Real Property Damage — court may apply either a diminution of value or the cost of repair measure, depending on which is most fair    

— Personal Property Damage — most courts apply the diminution of value test, although some use the cost of repair measure if justice so requires

Punitive damages may be awarded in addition to compensatory damages as punishment of a "malicious" or "oppressive" tortfeasor

JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY — two or more Ds are jointly and severally liable
when they act in concert, their acts join to create an indivisible injury, or there is	
no logical basis for distributing damages among them	

P can collect the entire amount from any joint tortfeasor

One D may have a right to indemnity from another or, in many states, a right to contribution if he has had
to pay a disproportionate share of the judgment

STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS

Traditional View — generally runs from the time the injury arose, but statute may be tolled in medical malpractice
cases when

Modern Trend — statutes start only when P could be reasonably expected to discover D's tortious conduct

The doctor-patient relationship
continues,

There was fraudulent concealment, or

A foreign object (e.g., a sponge) is left
in the P's body


MULTISTATE
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

PROPERTY

Property. That which is peculiar or proper to a
that which belongs exclusively to one. In the
sense, an aggregate of rights which are guarante
tected by the government. Fulton Light, Heat &
v. State, 65 Misc.Rep. 263, 121 N.Y.S. 536.
said to extend to every species of valuable right a
More specifically, ownership; the unrestricted al
right to a thing; the right to dispose of a thing it

Classification of Interests in Real Property

III. CONCURRENT ESTATES (meaning
ownership or possession by two or more
persons at the same time)
A. Joint tenancy
B. Tenancy by the entirety
C. Tenancy in common
D. Tenancy in coparcenary

IV. NON-FREEHOLD ESTATES (chattels
real — not inheritable at common law)
A. Tenancy for years
B. Tenancy from period to period
(meaning year to year, month to
month or week to week)

C. Tenancy at will
D. Tenancy at sufferance

V. INCORPOREAL INTERESTS IN

REAL PROPERTY (these cannot be
possessed physically because they
consist of rights of user or rights to
enforce agreements as to use)
A. Easements
B. Profits
C. Covenants running with the land
D. Equitable servitudes
E. Licenses

VI. RTS. INCIDENT TO POSSESSION

A. Adverse Possession
B. Lateral/Subjacent Support

VII. CONVEYANCING

VIII. MORTGAGES

I. FREEHOLD ESTATES  (these are real

property)
A. Fee Simple (always inheritable)

1. fee simple absolute
2. fee simple defeasible

a.

fee simple determinable or fee
simple subject to special
limitation

b. fee simple subject to condition

subsequent

c. fee simple subject to executory

limitation

B. Fee Tail (successor to fee simple
conditional — always inheritable)
C. Life Estates (never inheritable)
1. created by deed or will

a.

b.

life estate for the life of the
grantee
life estate for the life of one
other than the grantee — called
estate pur autre vie
2. created by operation of law

a.

fee tail after possibility of issue
extinct
b. dower
c. curtesy
d. estate during coverture

II. FUTURE INTERESTS

A. Reversions
B. Possibilities of reverter
C. Rights of re-entry for condition

broken (more recently called powers
of termination)

D. Remainders

1. vested remainders
2. contingent remainders

E. Executory interests

1. executory limitations created by

deed
a. springing uses
b. shifting uses

2. executory devises created by will

a.
b.

like springing uses
like shifting uses

ponbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

PROPERTY

1.

2.

(C)	
The language in the deed created a covenant between the grantor and the grantee.
Anders retained no property interest in the land. Burton fulfilled his obligation under the
contract by constructing a public health center within the prescribed period. Whether the
subsequent rededication of the properties' use is a breach of the covenant is a matter not
contemplated by the question. Because the language of the deed created only a contractual
obligation, answer (C) is correct.

(C)	
A fee simple subject to condition subsequent  is an estate in fee simple that may
be terminated by the conveyor, or those claiming under him, upon the happening of a
named event. However, an estate in fee simple subject to condition subsequent does not
end, ipso facto, upon the happening of the named event. The estate continues despite the
breach of the specified condition until it is divested by the grantor's power of termination
(or right of reentry). Smith and Boyer, Real Property, p. 9. The grantor's right to reenter
is optional. It may be accomplished by either making an entry on the land or bringing an
action to recover the estate. In this question Gilbert has merely demanded that Jared sur-
render possession but has neither made a reentry nor brought an ejectment action in court.
If Gilbert is wrong in stating that he once again owns Meadowlands it will be because he
has not yet taken steps to enforce his rights. Choice (C) is correct.

MBE Exam Tip:

DISSIMILARITIES

POSSIBILITY OF REVERTER

POWER OF TERMINATION

1.

IT ALWAYS TAKES EFFECT AUTO-
MATICALLY UPON THE HAPPENING
OF THE EVENT UPON WHICH IT IS
LIMITED

THIS IS ITS CHIEF CHARACTERISTIC

2. no affirmative act on the part of its owner is

necessary to make it effective

3.

4.

5.

6.

it is created by implication of law when a
deed or will creates a determinable estate

typical words limiting the determinable
estate are "until", "while", "so long as",
"during"

it is alienable when standing alone uncon-
nected with a reversion

its operation does not cause a forfeiture of
any estate

7. it cannot be waived after the event

1.

2.

3.

4.

IT NEVER TAKES EFFECT AUTOMAT-
ICALLY UPON BREACH OF THE CON-
DITION SUBSEQUENT UPON WHICH IT
IS LIMITED

THIS IS ITS CHIEF CHARACTERISTIC

to make it effective its owner must (a) elect
to exercise the power and (b) must do some
affirmative act to terminate the estate

it is created only by clear and express lan-
guage in a deed or will providing for a con-
dition subsequent to the estate conveyed

typical words limiting the condition subse-
quent are, "but if", "provided that", "upon
the express condition that", "but if it should
happen that"

5.

it is not alienable in most states when stand-
ing alone unconnected with a reversion

6.

its operation causes forfeiture of an estate

7. it can be waived after breach of the condition

3. (D) First, it is necessary to determine what interest was conveyed to Abel. According
to the given facts, Owen conveyed Greenacre to "Abel upon condition precedent that he
earn a college degree by age 30." If this condition occurs, title to the property would pass
from Owen to Abel. As a result, Abel has a shifting executory interest which would "cut
short" the preceding fee estate owned by Owen. In distinguishing between a contingent
remainder and an executory interest, always remember that a contingent remainder must
follow the natural termination of the preceding estate while an executory interest termi-
nates the prior estate before its natural termination. Since an executory interest is contin-
gent, Abel does not have the power to evict Baker who is viewed as Owen's tenant. Once
Abel's interest "vests" upon his earning a college degree (before the age of 30), then he
would have the right to immediate possession of Greenacre and have the right to terminate
Baker's tenancy.

posshop

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3	

PROPERTY

4.

5.

6.

7.

The facts clearly state that Hernandez conveyed a life estate to Gomez with a
(C)	
remainder in fee to Tampica. Since a life estate is alienable, Gomez did have the power to
convey his life interest to Tavarez. With respect to the question of the alienability of a life
estate, Boyer states that "a life tenant can convey his or her estate to a third person."
Introduction to Real Property,  pg. 59. As a consequence, the correct answer is (C). Note
that a life tenant cannot convey a greater estate than his own. As such, Tavarez's life estate
will extend not for his lifetime but for the lifetime of Gomez.

As life tenant, Young could only lease an interest in Farmacre equal to his own inter-
(D)	
est. Since Young's right to Farmacre terminated immediately upon his death, the lease to
Agronomist was of this same right; Agronomist was entitled to possession of Farmacre, at the
stated rent, for ten years or until Young's death, whichever came first. If Agronomist was
deceived as to the nature of the interest he was leasing, he must obtain satisfaction from
Young's estate. As a remainderman, Infant's right to possession of Farmacre matured at the
instant of Young's death, and he need not honor the lease nor compensate Agronomist in any
way for having rightfully dispossessed him. Choice (A) is inaccurate. As indicated above,
Agronomist's lease gave him no more right than Young to Farmacre. Upon Young's death, all
rights in Young or deriving from Young terminated. Infant takes Farmacre as remainderman
free of any encumbrances executed by Young. A different rule would permit a life tenant to
expand his interest at the expense of the remainderman by leasing or mortgaging the property.
Choice (B) is incorrect for the same reasons discussed above in connection with choice (A).
Choice (C) is not the best choice. Infant need not compensate Agronomist for the portion of
prepaid rent attributable to the remainder of the lease year. Agronomist's rights derive com-
pletely from Young and cannot exceed Young's rights, which terminated completely upon
Young's death. Young leased to Agronomist his (Young's) right to possession of Farmacre
during his life. When that life ended, so did all right to Farmacre.

A restraint against alienation of an inheritable future interest is void where the
(D)	
restraint may continue in effect after the future interest becomes possessory. This same issue
was tested on a recent MBE and it was held that a restraint against alienation applied to an
inheritable future interest is void to the same extent that the restraint would be void if the
future interest were presently possessory (i.e., if the future interest will result in a fee simple,
the restraint is void from its inception). In this question, if Ariel dies with a surviving child
under age 30, then the restraint on alienation will continue in effect after that child's remain-
der interest becomes possessory, and thus the restraint is void. The effect of voiding the
restraint is that the children take free of the restraint. The validity of the gifts to them there-
fore is not affected.

The Rule Against Perpetuities applies to the following six types of future interests: (1)
(B)	
options to purchase connected with a fee; (2) executory interests; (3) contingent remainders;
(4) powers of appointment; (5) class gifts and; (6) rights of first refusal. In order to be valid,
these interests must vest, if at all, within twenty-one years after some life in being. In this case,
since the option extends for twenty-five years, it is possible that no interest will vest in Garp
within the perpetuity period. As a result, choice (B) is the best answer.

RULE AGAINST PERPETUITIES
AS APPLIED TO
OPTIONS TO PURCHASE LAND

OPTIONS CONTAINED IN A	
DEED INSTRUMENT	

R/P Applies	

OPTIONS CONTAINED IN A
LEASEHOLD CONTRACT

R/P Does Not Apply

PROPERTY	

4

plissboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

8.

9.

(D) According to the common law rule, a mortgage results in a transfer of ownership to
the mortgagee (in a title theory jurisdiction). Applying this rule, a mortgage of joint tenancy
property, given by one of the joint tenants, results in a termination of the joint tenancy because
it terminates the unity of title as well as the unity of interest. See Burby,  Law of Property,
pg. 221. Furthermore, because a tenancy in common has no unity of interest, Gale's undivided
one-half interest in Roundacre was not encumbered by Elgin's mortgage. Gale will take free
of the mortgage, whereas Erickson will take subject to the mortgage. Choice (D) is correct.

(A) A highly tested Multistate Property area deals with partition proceedings. First, it is
important to point out that the filing of a complaint for partition does  not result in the sever-
ance of a joint tenancy. The rationale for this rule is that the complaint may be withdrawn at
any time before the equity court compels partition. Moreover, the right of survivorship will
attach if a joint tenant dies prior to that time. As a consequence, choice  (D) is wrong because
it provides an incorrect statement of law. By the same token, choice (C) is incorrect because
Gump's partition does not survive his death. In accordance with the right of survivorship,
Gump's joint tenancy interest was severed at the moment of his death. Furthermore, choices
(C) and (D) are wrong because (after Gump's death) Hernandez and Iba continue to hold title
to Blackacre as joint tenants. In this regard, students should be aware that whenever there are
three (or more) joint tenants and one dies, then the survivors still own title to the property as
joint tenants. On the other hand, in the event that two persons own title as joint tenants, and
one of them dies, then the joint tenancy is severed and the survivor owns an undivided
one-half interest in the property.

10. (B) This is an extremely "clever" Multistate question dealing with partition. It is
important to point out that partition proceedings are under the jurisdiction of a court of
equity. According to Burby, "reasonable restraints upon the rights of partition are valid."
Property, pg. 428. Whether or not such restraints are reasonable is determined by refer-
ence to the length of time involved and the purpose of the restraint. In this example, the
deed provided that the parties "and their heirs" covenanted not to partition the property
"forever". Obviously, this restraint against partition is for an unreasonably long period of
time and will not be enforceable. Note that choice  (B) is correct because the equity court
has judicial authority over partition proceedings. Thus, individual property owners cannot
override the jurisdiction of the equity court. Note that choice (A) is wrong because the
Rule Against Perpetuities does not apply to partition actions.

11.

(C) The doctrine of estoppel by deed (commonly referred to as the after-acquired prop-
erty doctrine) provides that when a person executes an instrument conveying a larger estate
than he has in land and subsequently acquires such larger estate, it inures by estoppel to the
benefit of the grantee. On the other hand, Smith and Boyer state that "if when a deed is made
it purports to convey only the interest which the grantor presently owns in the property, the
doctrine of estoppel by deed has no application and any after-aquired estate which comes to
the grantor may be kept by him free from the operation of the doctrine."  Real Property, pg.
322. Choice (C) is correct because Farnsworth transferred his entire 25% interest to Galloway
in 2006. As a result, the doctrine of estoppel by deed has no applicability to any after-aquired
property which comes to Farnsworth thereafter.

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

PROPERTY

12.

13.

According to Smith and Boyer, ticket holders to baseball games, horse races, polo,

(C)	
hockey contests and other entertainment spectacles have only a mere license which is
always revocable.  A license simply permits one person to come onto land in the possession of
another without being a trespasser. Since a license is revocable, choice (C) is correct. There
is a minority view which holds that a ticket holder has a contract with the stadium owner. In
such situations, the contract right is specifically enforceable and the ticket holder has a right
to use self help in remaining on the land. However, this is the minority view and, thus, choice
(B) is not the best answer.

(D)	
A profit is the right of one person to go onto the land in possession of another and take
there from either some part of the land or some product of the land. It is necessary to know
that a profit is regarded as real property if (1) it is for an indefinite time like a fee simple
estate or (2) it is for the life of a human being. In these two situations, a holder of profit is
properly entitled to share in a condemnation award where his (or her) profit interest is extin-
guished by eminent domain. See Smith and Boyer, Real Property, pg. 383. Therefore, choice
(D) is correct. Note that answer (C) is wrong because the duration of the profit was for
Chard's lifetime, not Benji's.

14. (C)	

An easement by prescription  arises by adverse use of the servient tenement by the
dominant tenant for the period of the statute of limitations. To mature such an easement
against a landowner the use must be (a)  adverse  as distinct from permissive; in derogation of
right rather than in subordination to the rights of the landowner; and (b)  open and notorious,
and (c) continuous and without interruption, and (d)for the period of prescription.  See Smith
and Boyer, Law of Property, p. 387. Since Stein openly and notoriously used the northeast
portion of Hillacre to gain access to Grassacre for the 20-year period, as required by statute,
he obtained an easement by prescription. This easement passed on to Grich, who was in priv-
ity with Stein by means of the 2005 sales contract. Therefore, Grich's rights are enforceable
against the whole world and he will prevail against Erika. Choice (C) is the correct answer.

Types of Easements

a. Easements (or profits) may thus be created as follows:

(1)

(2)

(3)

by express provision in a deed or will;

by implication — which arises from the circumstances surrounding the dividing
by the owner of a piece of land into two pieces and conveying one of such pieces
to another. Easements by implication include: (A)  easements of necessity and (b)
easements created by conveyances in reference to a plat depicting streets, parks and
other places thereon;

by prescription — which arises by adverse use of the servient tenement by the
dominant tenant for the period of the statute of limitations. To mature such an ease-
ment, the use must be (as with adverse possession): (a) adverse as distinct from per-
missive, (b) open and notorious, (c) continuous and without interruption, and (d)
for the statutory period;

(4)

by estoppel;

(5) by eminent domain.

PROPERTY	

6

ponbv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15.

16.

17.

(C) An easement by implication arises from the circumstances surrounding the dividing
by the owner of a piece of land into two pieces and conveying one such piece to another. From
the surrounding circumstances an inference is drawn that the parties intend the creation of an
easement. Based upon this fact situation it may be assumed that Fegen intended to grant an
implied easement to Trump to allow the office workers and shoppers access to the walkway
connecting the two office buildings. As a consequence, the holder of an easement has the right
to do such affirmative acts on the servient tract as are necessary to the enjoyment thereof.
According to Smith and Boyer, Law of Property, pg. 396, "such right includes the right to
repair, maintain and improve the means by which the easement is made effective."

(A) Here is a Multistate example dealing with extinguishment of an easement by merger.
When an easement appurtenant exists and both the dominant and servient tenements come
under the ownership of the same person, the easement is terminated by operation of law. The
apparent rationale is that one cannot have an easement in his own property. Therefore, when
Bix (who was already the owner of Blackacre) acquired Whiteacre from Wing, the easement
in effect merged in his fee simple ownership of both properties.

(A) This is an example of an easement by implication. Students should note that an
implied easement is created and proved not by the words of the conveyance (it is  not express),
but by all the circumstances surrounding the execution of the conveyance. It is based upon the
intent of the parties. There are five prerequisites to the creation of an implied easement; (1)
there must be a quasi-easement; (2) there must be a conveyance of one part of the property
and a retention of another part of the property by the grantor; (3) the quasi-easement must be
apparent at the time of the easement; (4) the quasi-servient tenement must be permanently
adapted to serve the quasi-dominant tenement; and (5) the quasi-easement must be (a)  rea-
sonably necessary to the enjoyment of the quasi-dominant tenement if that tract is conveyed,
and (b) strictly necessary if the quasi-dominant tenement is retained by the grantor. Therefore,
since Dowd (the grantee) could reach the highway  either by crossing Blackacre or Greenacre,
she has satisfied the element of reasonable necessity.

18.

(A) This same issue was tested two years ago on the MBE. A covenant is a contractual
obligation which is created in connection with the transfer of real property. As a general rule,
a covenant not only binds and benefits the original obligor and obligee, but will also "run
with the land" to be enforceable against successors in interest. Therefore, a covenant is the
best way to assure that each lot owner, even those who did not purchase from Aboo, will have
to make payments toward the projected operating deficit of the recreational facilities.

pstabo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7	

PROPERTY

Multistate Nuance Chart:

REAL PROPERTY

COVENANT RUNNING WITH
THE LAND

1. Is more than a mere personal contract but
is less than an easement because techni-
cally it is not an "interest in land."

2. Requirements: (a) there must be a
covenant, (b) an intention that the
covenant run with the land, (c) must
"touch and concern" the land and (d) priv-
ity of estate.

3. A covenant "touches and concerns" the
land if it makes the land in the hands of the
owner either more usable and more valu-
able or less usable and less valuable.

4. Legal effect: is to make an assignee of the
land either benefit by or be burdened by
the covenant without being party to the
making of the contract.

5. Remedies for breach: standard contract
remedies (i.e., money damages or specific
performance if appropriate).

EQUITABLE SERVITUDE

1. Is a restriction on the use of land enforce-

able in a court of equity.

2. Is more than a covenant running with the
land, because it is an interest in land.

3. Is broader than an equitable easement
because it applies not only to land but also
to chattel property such as a business.

4. Requirements: (a) may be created by a
writing complying with the Statute of
Frauds, (b) intention of the parties that
there be a restriction and (c) transferee
takes the land with either actual or con-
structive notice of the existence of the
servitude.

5. Privity of estate is not required.

6. Remedies: equitable remedies.

19.

20.

(A)	
Implied reciprocal servitudes were tested on the last three MBE exams. Here, Verde
can enforce the passive-solar house restriction as an implied reciprocal servitude which runs
with the last to bind Wilson. When a developer divides land into many different lots and sells
some of the lots via deeds that contain a restriction such as the passive-solar heat limitation,
then sells other lots not expressly subject to the restriction, the courts will enforce the restric-
tion on the subsequently sold lots on the theory that the developer impliedly intended for all
such lots to be subject to the restriction. The person seeking to enforce the implied reciprocal
servitude must show that there was a common plan or scheme.  In this case, evidence of the
common plan is shown by the recorded subdivision plan and by the fact that 200 of the 300
lots were sold with the restriction expressly contained in their deeds.

(C)	
Be aware that the Property questions on the MBE are the most onerous and diffi-
cult. During the last two years, the average mean score for Property on the MBE has been
only 17 correct (out of 33). One of the reasons the Property scores are so low is because
very obscure areas (such as percolating waters, fructus naturales crops, mortgages, riparian
water rights, etc.) are often tested. We strongly advise students to do all the PMBR
Multistate questions in the Workbook. From our experience, you can learn Property law
better by doing practice questions than by reading general outlines. With respect to this
particular question, it is necessary to proceed by process of elimination. Note that choices
(A) and (B) are clearly wrong because the question wants you to presume that the lot own-
ers will not prevail in their action to recover damages. In both eminent domain and inverse
condemnation proceedings,  just compensation must always be paid to the landowner.
Thus, if the lot owners fail in their suit to recover damages against the county, then obvi-

PROPERTY

8

psnbzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21.

22.

23.

24.

ously eminent domain and inverse condemnation are incorrect. Also, choice (D) is wrong
because an equitable servitude can be enforced against a buyer in a subdivision scheme
even though his deed does not necessarily contain the restriction. Whether or not a partic-
ular person can enforce an equitable servitude is determined by the intention of the parties.
Therefore, by process of elimination choice (C) must be correct.

(C)	
An assignee of a leasehold is in privity of estate with the landlord. Liability for rent
and for observing the other covenants that run with the leasehold can be based on privity
of estate as well as privity of contract. Smith and Boyer, Real Property, p. 149. Therefore,
a landlord can recover from the assignee rent obligations occurring while privity of estate
continues or until the assignee in turn assigns the leasehold. Dork, who has occupied the
premises for five months, will be liable for that rent accruing while he was Carr's
assignee-December, January, February, March and April—but not for any back rent during
Carr's tenancy. Choices (A) and  (B) are incorrect. In addition, the facts state that rent was
payable in advance on the first of each month. As a result, since Dork was in possession
on April 1, he will also be held liable for April's rental. Therefore, choice (C) is correct
because Dork will be liable for $5,000.

This is a rather straightforward Property question dealing with subleases. A sub-
(B)	
tenancy is where the tenant transfers his right of possession for a time shorter than the bal-
ance of the leasehold, so that he retains a reversion within the leasehold. Therefore, the
subtenant is neither in privity of estate nor privity of contract with the landlord. Lacking
privity, a subtenant is not liable to the landlord to pay rent. Choice  (B) is thus correct. Be
advised that choice (C) is incorrect because the fact that Tennace transferred "his entire
interest for two years" is a "red herring" intended to distract students into thinking that
Tennace made an assignment rather than a sublease. But a careful reading of the facts
would indicate that Tennace still had three years remaining in his leasehold. Thus, he
transferred a leasehold interest for a shorter term than what he still possessed.

(A)	
A very similar issue dealing with assigning and subleasing was recently tested on the
MBE. By definition an assignment occurs if the tenant transfers the entire estate, or the bal-
ance thereof, to the third party. If a lesser estate is conveyed so that the tenant retains an inter-
est in the leasehold, the transfer is properly classified a sublease. Since statement I covers a
sublease, it will be prohibited by the terms of the lease. Conversely, Hazelwood's friends had
a license (or mere permission) to use the lake for recreational purposes. Since a license is not
prohibited by the prohibitions in the lease, choice (A) is correct. Note that prohibitions against
assignment and sublease are strictly construed in real property law.

(A)	
At common law, since a tenant was deemed to receive an estate in land, his rights and
duties were treated as independent of the landlord's rights and duties. Thus, if the landlord
promised to keep the property in repair, a breach of this promise did not relieve the tenant
from the duty of paying rent. According to the common law rationale, the rent was owed as
payment for the estate and the promise to do repairs was merely a collateral promise which
could be enforced only by a separate contractual suit brought by the tenant. This doctrine is
generally referred to as the  independence of covenants.  As a result, choices (C) and (D) are
incorrect. Choice (B) is wrong because the reason the landlord will prevail is because the
premises were not uninhabitable (the basis for constructive eviction) rather than because the
tenant failed to perform the repainting himself. In other words, self-help is not an appropriate
remedy inasmuch as the tenant had no duty to make such repairs.

pssabie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

PROPERTY

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

Here is another "trick" Multistate Property question dealing with termination of a
(D)	
periodic tenancy. In a month to month tenancy, a full month's notice must be given.  This
means that if Bobby wishes to terminate Lucia's tenancy in September, she may occupy the
apartment for one more full month  through the end of the month since she has paid
September rent. So, therefore, any notice of termination in September allows Lucia one more
full month of occupancy.

(C)	
A landlord impliedly warrants that the tenant will have a legal right to possession of
the premises at the beginning of the term. However, under the American view he does not have
an obligation to actually deliver possession to the tenant. On the other hand,  under English
law there is such an implied duty by the landlord to put the lessee in possession of the
premises.  Smith and Boyer, Survey of Property, 2d. Ed., p. 138-140. It is agreed that the
lease gives the tenant the legal right to possession, but the issue is whether the landlord
impliedly agrees to enforce such right against a trespasser or a holdover tenant. All the cases
agree that the tenant's exclusive remedy is against the wrongdoer and the tenant has no
remedy against the landlord. Applying the American rule, Farnsworth's only cause of action
would be the right to eject the tenant at sufferance, Sanchez. Choice (A) is incorrect, however,
because the question asks you to follow Anglo-Saxon case law.  Choice (C) is the best answer
since Hammer failed to deliver possession of the premises to Farnsworth.

Questions involving trade fixtures frequently appear on the bar exam.  Trade fixtures

(B)	
are chattels annexed to the land by a tenant for pecuniary gain during his tenancy. As a
general rule, trade fixtures are removable by the tenant unless accession occurs.  Regarding
the doctrine of accession, Smith and Boyer provide an example where a steel  "I" beam is built
into a structure. The beam thus becomes an accession to the property. As such, it loses its
identity as a trade fixture and is not removable.  Real Property, pg. 226. By analogy, the loft,
which is structurally attached to the main building, is viewed as an accession. Choice (B) is
therefore correct as all other chattels are trade fixtures and removable.

(B)	
The right of a landowner to have her land supported laterally by the neighboring land
is an absolute right inherent in the land itself. The right of lateral support means  the land in
its natural condition.  The right of lateral support does not include the right to have the addi-
tional weight of artificial structures supported. If there is damage to artificial structures, the
majority view is recovery is limited to damage to the land in its natural condition and  may not
include any damage to the artificial structures  on the land. This is called the American rule.
Note that if there is negligence on the part of the wrongdoer who removes lateral or subjacent
support, then the defendant is liable for all damages which proximately result, including dam-
ages to both the land and artificial structures. Choice (B) is thus correct.

(C)	
This question deals with the area of emblements, or fructus industriales.  Growing
crops are generally classified as personal property and will pass with a sale or mortgage of
the land. A purported sale of growing crops is considered to be a contract to sell the crops
when they come into existence. Maturity of the crop at the time of sale is not a controlling
factor. Burby, Real Property, pg. 16. Therefore, upon Winston's sale of his farm to
Raleigh, the growing tobacco crop will pass as personal property and Winston will not be
entitled to remove it. Choice (C) is correct.

30.

(D)	
Under riparian water rights  domestic use is superior to and is protected against com-
mercial or agricultural use. However, since this jurisdiction followed the  prior appropriation
doctrine,  choice (D) would be correct, based on the principle of "first in time, first in right."

PROPERTY	

10

poufs.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Riparian Doctrine

Prior Appropriation Doctrine

1. THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURE OF THE
RIPARIAN DOCTRINE IS EQUALITY OF RIGHTS
AND REASONABLE USE—there is no priority of
rights, the reasonable use by each is limited by a like
reasonable use in every other riparian.

2. To be a riparian one needs only to be an owner of
riparian land. Riparian land is land which abuts or
touches the water of a lake or stream.

1. THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURE OF THE
PRIOR APPROPRIATION DOCTRINE IS FIRST IN
TIME IS FIRST IN RIGHT—there is no equality of
rights and no reasonable use limited by the rights of
others.

2. To be a prior appropriator one must do three things,
(a) have an intent to appropriate water, (b) divert the
water from the source of supply and (c) put such water
to a beneficial use.

3. Riparian lands are lands within the watershed. Under
the natural flow theory a riparian cannot use water on
non-riparian lands, that is, beyond the watershed from
which the water cannot return to the stream from
which it is taken. Under the reasonable use theory a
riparian may use water on non-riparian lands if such
use is reasonable.

4. Under the riparian doctrine the use of water for  nat-
ural purposes is paramount and takes precedence over
the use of water for artificial purposes. Natural uses
include domestic purposes for the household and
drink, stock watering and irrigating the garden.
Artificial purposes include use of irrigation, power,
mining, manufacturing and industry.

3.

4.

The prior appropriator may use the appropriated water
on riparian and on non-riparian lands alike. The char-
acter of the land is quite immaterial.

The prior appropriation doctrine makes no distinction
between uses of water for natural wants and for artifi-
cial and industrial purposes.

31.

32.

(C)	
In order to acquire title to property by adverse possession, the possession must be:  (1)
exclusive; (2) open and notorious (meaning not secret or clandestine); (3) continuous and
peaceable (meaning without interruption); and (4) hostile and adverse (meaning without
the dispossessed owner's permission).  The period of adverse possession of one possessor can
be "tacked" to the period of adverse possession of another possessor when there is privity
between the two. It is important to point out that this Multistate question does not involve
tacking. Rather, during the period of adverse possession, the adverse possessor entered into a
lease agreement with the owner. Note that the two year lease was with the owner's permis-
sion. So, therefore the possession during the leasehold was not adverse or hostile.
Consequently, choice (C) is correct.

(C)	
Choice (C) is correct because Haddox's possession was (1) actual and exclusive, (2)
open, visible and notorious (not secret or clandestine, but rather occupying as a true owner),
(3) continuous (without abandonment or a physical hiatus in occupancy), (4)  hostile and
adverse, and (5) for the statutory period. The key element in this question is  "hostile" and
"adverse." Under the majority view, it is generally stated that the adverse possesor must
intend to hold adversely against the whole world, including the rightful owner, but the really
significant fact is that he  hold against the rights of the legal owner  (i.e., in derogation of, not
in subordination to, the rights of the legal owner). Boyer,  Survey of The Law of Property,
3rd Edition, pg. 241. The motives of the adverse possessor are irrelevant. Whether he intends
a wrongful disseisin or whether he occupies what he believes to be his own, he aquires title,
since it is the visible and adverse possession with intent to possess that constitutes its adverse
character, not the remote views or mistaken belief of the possessor.  Schertz v. Rundles,  363
N.E. 2d 203 (1977). It is clear that Haddox intended to possess the tennis court believing that
it was his own property. Therefore, since Haddox's possession was both adverse and hostile,
Virdon will not prevail in an action for encroachment. Haddox has obtained title to the three-
foot strip by adverse possession. Choice (C) is correct.

posabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

PROPERTY

33.

34.

(C)	
Under the unity of possession, each co-tenant is entitled to possess and enjoy the
whole of the property subject to the equal right of his (or her) co-tenant. If one tenant  wrong-
fully  excludes another co-tenant from possession of the whole or any part of the whole prop-
erty, such conduct amounts to an ouster. Here, choice (C) is correct because there is no
evidence that Arthur was wrongfully excluding Celia from Goodacre. Note that choice (D) is
wrong because Burby points out that "possession may become adverse if the co-tenants are
excluded from possession (i.e., ouster) or if the co-tenants are specifically notified of the
adverse claim or can be charged with notice because of the acts of the possessor."  Real
Property, pg. 232

(C)	
This is a classic Multistate Property example where a substantial number of students
will incorrectly choose choice (D). The test maker knows that many students will be led
astray by viewing this as a trespass-type question. In trespass, of course, the plaintiff is enti-
tled to relief if he (or she) shows an intentional unprivileged entry. If he (or she) does so, the
plaintiff is then entitled at least to nominal damages and possibly an injunction prohibiting
further trespass. This example, however, does not really deal with the issue of trespass.
Rather, what we have here is a  boundary line agreement between Mays and Mantle. As a gen-
eral rule, judicial recognition is extended to boundary line agreements even if not executed
with the formalities prescribed by the Statute of Frauds. Burby notes that application of the
doctrine usually requires proof that the parties were not informed as to the true boundary line,
that there was an express or implied agreement as to its location, and possession that con-
formed to the agreement. As such, Snider's (i.e., the grantee's) proper cause of action is not
against Mays for trespass, but rather it is against Mantle (the grantor) for breach of the pre-
sent covenant against encumbrances. Burby,  Real Property, pg. 310.

35. (D)	

This same Property area involving metes and bounds was tested two years ago on
the MBE. The reason why many students were confused was because the land could not
be identified in a square or rectangular configuration where the property lines run north,
east, south and west. Rather, the property lines extended southeast and northwest. As such,
the diagram below will identify the shape of the property being conveyed. The last call is
clearly incorrect. The 4th call should have said "thence north at a 90° angle  east 50 feet."
Since the deed fails to enclose a bounded area, it will fail for indefiniteness. Choice (D) is
the best answer.

BLACKACRE DIAGRAM

PROPERTY	

12

ponboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

36.

37.

(D) In a tenancy in common, the only unity is that of possession. Each tenant owns an
undivided fractional part of the property. Upon the death intestate of a tenant in common his
interest descends to his heirs. There is no right of survivorship. Although choices (C) and (D)
are technically both correct, the latter is preferred because it addresses the Statute of Frauds
issue that was raised in the fact situation. The facts state that Taylor and Scott made an oral
agreement regarding the transfer of their interest in the property upon death. According to the
Statute of Frauds, an oral agreement relating to the transfer of an interest in land must be in
writing in order to be enforceable. Thus, the verbal agreement is unenforceable.

(C) Always remember, a contract for the sale or transfer of an interest in land comes
within the Statute of Frauds and must be in writing to be enforceable. In determining the cor-
rect legal advice to give Mann, statements I and II express the opinion that the oral land con-
tract is specifically enforceable. Since specific performance will  not be decreed, choices (A),
(B) and (D) are incorrect. In the overwhelming majority of states, equity will decree specific
performance of an oral land contract, despite the Statute of Frauds, only where there has been
substantial part performance (i.e., taking possession of the property and paying part of the
purchase price). Moreover, the taking of possession together with other acts normally to be
performed by a buyer (e.g., payment of taxes or interest on the mortgage) have been held to
justify specific performance. However, it is well established that payment of the price
alone is not sufficient part performance,  unless possession has been delivered and taken
thereunder.

38. (B) Delivery of a deed to real property, being the state of mind of the grantor, means  the
intention of the grantor that the deed shall operate as a conveyance.  To effectuate such a
conveyance, title will pass to the grantee if there be a physical deed and the grantor intends it
to operate as a conveyance, even if the grantor retains possession of the physical paper on
which the deed is written. It is not material whether the physical deed is in the possession of
the grantee, the grantor, or a third person. Smith and Boyer,  Real Property, p. 280, 294. Daisy
clearly intended to make a present, inter vivos conveyance to Bessie and Sylvester with no
reservation of rights. Her  execution of the warranty deed plus her intent that it be operative
as a conveyance of the ski chalet (which is further emphasized by her attached note) consti-
tute an effective delivery. Title thereby passed to Bessie and Sylvester at the time of execu-
tion. Upon Bessie's death, Sylvester would then take her joint tenancy interest by right of
survivorship and hold title to the ski chalet in severalty. Choice  (B) is correct. Neither Bessie's
heir, Blake, nor Daisy's heir, Dottie, have any interest.

39. (B) A forged deed is a nullity and cannot be the foundation for a claim of title by any sub-
sequent purchaser who traces her chain of title to that deed. Thus, although Midas searched the
title records (through his agent, Titleco) and purchased the property in good faith, he will not
be protected under the recording act. Furthermore, the warranty deed from Osaka to Larsen
was "undelivered" because there was no present intent to pass title until the condition of grad-
uation from college was satisfied. Title remains in Osaka. Choice (B) is correct. MBE Exam
Tip: Remember the three ways conveyances are commonly invalidated on the bar exam are
by means of (1) unrecorded deeds; (2) forged deeds; and (3) non-delivery of deeds.

40. (B) The doctrine of equitable conversion acts as a risk allocator in land sale contract sit-
uations. In its original application, the doctrine treats the purchaser in a land sale contract as
the owner of the property from the moment the contract is signed, even if legal title will not
pass until closing. Thus, if the subject property is damaged while the escrow is pending, the
purchaser bears the loss. This application of the doctrine has been subject to much criticism,

pooh.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

PROPERTY

and some jurisdictions have rejected it, placing the risk of loss during such a period on the
seller until either (1) the purchaser takes possession of the property (when she would pre-
sumably realize she needed to insure it) or (2) when legal title passes. This rule, known as the
Uniform Vendor and Purchaser's Risk Act,  best supports the trial court's decision in favor of
Bracero—that he was not in possession and thus did not bear the risk of loss. Choice (A) is
not the best choice. The presence of insurance covering a loss affecting property involved in
a land sale contract is not irrelevant; most courts will not permit a party to use the doctrine of
equitable conversion to reap a windfall if they do not bear the risk of loss yet receive insur-
ance proceeds as to the subject property. However, where there is no insurance, the courts do
not consider its absence in deciding whether to apply the doctrine of equitable conversion,
The party bearing the risk of loss suffers precisely because his lack of insurance is not taken
into account. This is one of the major criticisms of equitable conversion—it shifts the risk of
loss to the buyer, who is less likely to have insurance on property as to which he does not yet
consider himself the owner. Choice (C) is incorrect. As indicated above, if the doctrine of equi-
table conversion were given its normal application, the risk of flood loss would fall on Bracero,
and he would not be entitled to rescind the contract due to the damage which occurred to the
property before closing. Choice (D) is inaccurate. The trade fixtures doctrine, which pertains
to landlord-tenant situations where the tenant wishes to remove improvements the tenant made
which have been attached to the leasehold, has no application to this situation.

41.

42.

43.	

(A)	
Under equitable conversion the purchaser is regarded as the "equitable" owner of
the land although legal title remains with the seller. In the absence of a contract provision
to the contrary, the weight of authority applies the equitable conversion doctrine and
shifts the risk of loss to the vendee for casualty losses which occur during the existence
of the vendor-vendee relationship.  By the same token, the doctrine also "shifts the ben-
efits to the purchaser as well". Real Estate Transactions, Burke, pg. 45. With regard to
the shifting of benefits, Burke points out that if minerals are discovered on the property
during the executory period, the person bearing the risk of loss should in fairness also
receive the benefits of the appreciation in value. In like manner, since the property appre-
ciated in value during the executory period as a result of the condemnation, Vendee will
be entitled to the appreciation in value. Therefore, choice (A) is correct.

(C)	
The obligation of the seller is to provide "good" and "marketable" title to the buyer
at the time set for closing. Existing land use restrictions do not render title unmarketable (as
opposed to zoning restrictions enacted between the time of the sales contract and the time of
closing). Since the Aparicio-Fox contract was mutually enforceable and not conditioned on
Fox's intended use, there was no failure of consideration. Therefore, specific performance by
Aparicio, the seller, will be granted. Choice (D) is incorrect because Fox's defense is barred
by the parol evidence rule, not the Statute of Frauds. By process of elimination, choice (C) is
correct.

(D)	
In the area of conveyancing, questions dealing with marketable title frequently are
tested on the MBE. A similar issue was tested on both administrations of the MBE three years
ago! In a contract for the sale of land, where either an express or an implied contract provi-
sion calls for conveyance of marketable title, the time at which such  marketable title must be
conveyed is at the closing of escrow.  In this respect, the seller is entitled to rely upon the pro-
ceeds of sale to retire an outstanding encumbrance which could otherwise render title unmar-
ketable. Choice (D) is thus correct because Oatbran may apply the proceeds from the sale to
remove the tax lien in order to render title marketable.

PROPERTY	

14

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

44.

45.

46.

(C)	
The "key" to this question is carefully interpreting the wording of the recording statute.
According to the statutory language, the Runnymede recording act protects subsequent bona
ride purchasers for value and without notice. As such, this is an example of a pure "notice" type
recording statute which generally provides, "an unrecorded conveyance or other instrument is
invalid as against a subsequent bona fide purchaser for value and without notice." Under this
type of recording statute, the subsequent bona fide purchaser prevails over the prior interest
whether the subsequent purchaser records or not. As a consequence, Fong will prevail over
Eto because Fong was a subsequent bona fide purchaser without notice of Eto's deed.

This is an extremely tricky Property Multistate question dealing with recording
(C)	
statutes. Firstly, choice (A) is wrong because the conveyance will take precedence over the
will provision. A deed effectively transfers title to property after there has been a valid
delivery. The facts indicate that a valid delivery occurred. Not only did Bergman intend for
the deed to be effective, but it was also duly recorded. Next, choice (B) is wrong because a
recital of consideration such as "for value received" is sufficient to support a valid con-
veyance. Even if a consideration is not recited in the deed, the conveyance will be sustained if
there is proof that a consideration was, in fact, paid. Be advised that courts generally do not
take into account the amount of consideration. Thus, a nominal consideration of $10 will be
deemed to be valid. Now it gets "tricky" choosing between (C) and (D). Note that (C) "trumps"
(D) because it is irrelevant whether Emerson recorded the deed because  only bona fide pur-
chasers are protected under recording acts. Donees, heirs and devisees are not protected
because they do not give value for their interests. Since Dixie is a devisee, she is not protected
under the recording statute. Emerson will prevail regardless of whether he recorded or not.

(B)	
A key  testing area on the Multistate deals with mortgages. Keep in mind that the
difference between a transfer of the mortgage property "subject to" and "assuming" the mort-
gage is the difference between personal liability and the lack thereof on behalf of the grantee.
In a conveyance of land "subject to" a mortgage, the grantee is not personally liable for the
debt which the mortgage secures. Conversely, in a sale of land in which the purchaser
"assumes the mortgage," the purchaser or grantee is personally liable for the mortgage debt.
Since Davis "assumed the mortgage," he is personally liable; therefore, choice (B) is correct.
See Figure 1.

47.

(C)	
As indicated above, in order for the grantee-Davis to be personally liable to the mort-
gagee, the former must "assume the mortgage." Thus, in this situation where the  deed instru-
ment makes no reference to the mortgage,  the grantee does not assume the mortgage and is
not liable to the mortgagee. See Figure 2.

FIGURE 1

FIGURE 2

deed conveying property to C, the

deed conveying property to C, the

A is
grantor/
mortgagor

Conveyance
Or
Sale of Land
Subject to Mortgage

as

 grantee

who is NOT
PERSONALLY
LIABLE

A is
grantor/
mortgagor

 grantee
who IS
PERSONALLY
LIABLE

Conveyance
Or
Sale of Land
Assuming Mortgage

A = Clark / promisee

B = Evans / 3PB

C = Davis / promisor

pinkie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

B is the Mortgagee

B is the Mortgagee

15	

PROPERTY



48.

49.

50.	

(D)	
A similar issue dealing with purchase money mortgages was tested on the MBE last
summer. In a majority of states  purchase money mortgages take priority over other mort-
gages which have been executed prior to or simultaneously with the purchase money mort-
gage. Since purchase money mortgages take priority over all previously recorded mortgage
instruments, choice (D) is correct because recording statutes are irrelevant. As a general rule,
recording statutes give priority to (prior) recorded instruments (such as deeds, mortgages and
assignments). But a purchase money mortgage "trumps" previous claims (whether recorded
or not recorded) on the property. Another variation frequently tested on the Multistate deals
with priority between a purchase money mortgage and an after-acquired property clause in a
previously executed mortgage. Osborne notes that purchase money mortgages generally take
priority over after-acquired property interests as well.  Mortgages, pg. 389.

Mortgage questions now constitute the "hottest" new area that is being tested on
(C)	
the MBE. The Examiners are keying into mortgages because this is one area of law that
the general bar review courses often cover inadequately during their substantive law lec-
tures. In this regard, students must be familiar with  exoneration. One who personally
stands as surety, or whose interest in mortgaged property occupies that position, is enti-
tled to exoneration against the person or property primarily bound to pay the debt.
Moreover, Osborne in his hornbook on Mortgages states that "such persons also, if it will
not prejudice the rights of the mortgage creditor or third parties, may compel the mortgage
creditor to enforce his claim against the person or property primarily liable." Choice (C)
is thus correct because once Lemke conveyed the property to Biddle (who "assumed the
mortgage" by promising to repay it), he became secondarily liable as surety. Therefore, the
mortgagee must first proceed against either the property or Biddle (who is primarily liable)
before asserting its rights against Lemke.

(C)	 With respect to the foreclosure issue, Smith and Burby state that "junior incum-
brancers must be made parties to a foreclosure action in order to have their claims elimi-
nated." Law of Property, pg. 346. Therefore, despite the fact that Center City Bank obtained
a foreclosure decree, Singer's rights as a junior incumbrancer would not be compromised
because he was not made a party to the action. Note that the facts clearly state that the bank
"failed to join Singer" in its foreclosure action. Secondly, the bank's foreclosure would  not
bar Singer's equity of redemption. In an overwhelming majority of states (those following
"lien theory") a foreclosure does not extinguish a mortgagor's redemption right. Therefore,
choice (C) most correctly states Singer's available remedies. Note that a minority of states
("title theory" states) follow strict foreclosure rules whereby a foreclosure action literally
forecloses or bars the equity of redemption.

PROPERTY	

16

pistbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

poishe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

PROPERTY
MIG 1

Multistate Issue Graph

FREEHOLD ESTATES

Fee Simple Absolute	

How created
(Common law)

A conveys Blackacre "to B and his heirs".

words of limitation

FEE SIMPLE

Fee Simple Determinable	
(created by words: "until", —
"while", "as long as")	

A conveys Blackacre "to B and his heirs as long as liquor is not sold on property".

Exam Tip: If event occurs, there is an automatic reversion back to grantor.

Fee Simple Subject To Condition Subsequent
(created by words: "provided that", "but if",
"on condition that").

Fee Simple Subject To Executory Interest

A conveys Blackacre "to B and her heirs but if liquor is sold on property,
then A has right of re-entry".

A conveys "to B and her heirs but if liquor is sold on property then to C and his heirs".

Exam Tip: If event occurs, title passes to a 3rd person  (no reversion to grantor).

Now cfeated

A by deed conveys Blackacre "to B and the heirs of his body".

FEE TAIL

Inheritance 

to a par

group of lineal desceticular
ndants

A conveys Blackacre "to B and the male heirs of his body".

words of limitation

LIFE ESTATE

Life Estate Pur Autre Vie 	

 A by deed (or will) conveys Blackacre "to B for the life of C".

A by deed (or will) conveys Blackacre "to B for life".

At common law a widow was entitled to a life estate in 1/3 of the
land that her husband owned (seised) in fee simple during marriage.

Curtesy

At common law a husband was entitled (upon his wife's death)
to a life estate in all lands his wife owned during the marriage.

psasbv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

PROPERTY
MIG 2

Multistate Issue Graph

NON-FREEHOLD ESTATES

ESTATE FOR YEARS

How created	

L leases Blackacre to T for the period January 1, 1992 to  	
December 31, 1994 (a period of 3 years).   Ends automatically.

Characteristics

Specific time for
beginning and ending.

How created	

L leases Blackacre to T "from month to month"	
(or year to year).  

Characteristics 

PERIODIC TENANCY
also referred to as
ESTATE FROM
YEAR TO YEAR 

TENANCY AT WILL

How createdCharacteristics

L leases Blackacre to T for "as long as L wishes". 

TENANCY AT SUFFER-
ANCE 

T wrongfully remains in possession of premises  	
after the expiration of a lawful tenancy.	

Landlord

Remedies

Subject to statute of frauds. 

No specific termination date.

Automatically renews.

Notice is required for termination. 

Either party may terminate at will.

No notice is required.

Terminates by operation of law:
(1) either party dies;
(2) tenant commits waste;
(3) landlord sells property. 

Eviction

Creation of periodic tenancy

Forcible entry: most states by statute prohibit forcible entry. 

psimbir

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

PROPERTY
MIG 3

Multistate Issue Graph

FUTURE INTERESTS

REVERSION

How created	

A, owner in fee simple, conveys Blackacre to B for life.
(A has a reversion.)

Characteristics

POSSIBILITY OF
REVERTER

How created

A, owner in fee simple, conveys Blackacre to B and his
heirs as long as property is used for residential pur-
poses.

Characteristics

RIGHT OF RE-ENTRY
FOR BROKEN CONDITION
(Power of Termination)

How created

A, owner in fee simple, conveys Blackacre to B and his
heirs but if land is not used for residential purposes, A
has right of re-entry.

Characteristics

Is not destructible.

Is transferable.

Is vested.

Is NOT subject to rule against perpetuities.

Takes effect automatically upon happening of event.

Created as part of determinable fee.

Alienable.

Never takes effect automatically.

Created as part fee simple subject to condition subsequent.

Not subject to RAP.

REMAINDERS

Vested

ubject t°

‘.101. s

/1,1'03

Contingent

A, owner in fee simple, conveys Blackacre to B for life,
remainder to C and his heirs. (C has a vested remainder).

A, owner in fee, conveys Blackacre to B for life, remainder
to C and his heirs if C pays A $100. (C has a contingent
remainder).

Absolutely vested.

Vested subject to partial defeasance

Vested subject to total defeasance.

TY PES Subject to condition precedent.

Created in favor of an unborn or
unascertained person.

Must follow natural termination
of prior estate.

Follows a life estate,
fee tail or estate for years.

Cannot follow a fee simple estate.

Not destructible (modern view).

Are transferable (modern view).

Subject to claims of creditors
(modern view).

Subject to RAP.

EXECUTORY
INTERESTS

soitog

SPringing

A, owner in fee, conveys Blackacre to B for life but if B mar-
ries X, then to C and his heirs. (C has a shifting executory
interest).

A, owner in fee, devises Blackacre to B and his heirs one
year after A's death. (B has an springing executory devise.)

Characteristics

Prior estate may be a fee simple, life estate or fee tail.

Cuts short prior estate before its natural termination.

Subject to RAP

Alienable and contingent.

pm:Ow

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Express

EASEMENT
Right of one person to  22
enter the land of another 44
and make limited use of
property (e.g. ingress
egress).

PROPERTY
MIG 4

Multistate Issue Graph

Adverse use

Open/notorious

Continuous

Statutory period (10 yrs, 15 yrs, 21 yrs)

By deed or will

(1)quasi-easement

(2)Conveyance with retention by
owner of part of property

(3) Easement must be reasonably

necessary (necessity: "strictly
necessary")

NON-POSSESSORY
INTERESTS IN LAND

Merger

Abandonment
(Non-use not sufficient)

Release (written)

Destruction of servient tene-
ment

All	

niative

,r) Ilse

certain

Types

Extinguishment

Negative t,se
. .os 
606

ef,No 0‘ 

It?

Seri,/

rocs
subject &nem

ent

Se e

to ea

Extinguishment

Merger

Abandonment

Release

Destruction of servient tene-
ment

PROFIT
Right of one person to enter
the land of another and
extract something therefrom
(e.g. crops, sand, oil).

Requires

Compliance
w/S/F

LICENSE
Permission to enter
another's property without
being trespasser

COVENANT RUNNING
WITH LAND

Requirements

EQUITABLE SERVITUDE

Requirements

Characteristics

Personal in nature

No-writing required

LICENSE

EASEMENT

CONTRACT

Consideration:	

May be required

Not required

Required

Permissive use

S/F:	

No writing required

Writing required

Oral/Written

No prescriptive rights

Revocable:

Yes

No

No

Writing

Intent

Touch & concern land

Privity of estate

Privity

Writing (notice)

Intent

Touch & concern

No Privity required

voes

\AO\

at bet.
tiel\ar°g

 01.414 G° 
lie .	

rriba/
11:16'91./irect to .

UbcossorOotinct

for Breach

Remedies

occ‘e\I	

Extinguishment

Ptk \alsi

dam es

ct
Estoppel	
Chan	NegativeNegative covenants

Common scheme

'&ubgrhoo	will be implied

coe„.
-

/i

Noire

Extinguishment

Grantors
/Merit

Merger

Release

Condemnation

Abandonment

Merger

Release

Condemnation

Changed
neighborhood
conditions




psnbt

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

PROPERTY
MIG 5

Multistate Issue Graph

CONVEYANCING

VENDOR-PURCHASER

Identify parties

Describe land

Equitable conversion

exception: part performance
doctrine

Purchase price

Signed by maker

Majority view

TITLE DEFECTS:

Mortgage

Easement

Tax lien

Outstanding
reverter rights

\‘,101

pe
aes\ko"(

Types

DEED

Pr MO"?

Oso_ ce

RECORDING ACTS
(protects purchasers
not donees, heirs or
devisees)

Warranty
SA.,C471

(Spec;

(Contains all 6
covenants)

rY oofrraI

'017ts)

Covenants of

title

Seisin

Right to convey

Encumbracers

Quiet Enjoyment

Warranty

Further assurances

Personal in nature
do not run w/land

Run w/land

Estoppel by deed

Minority View

Race-notice

MORTGAGES
(Security interest
in land)

Types

'.0‘.\\.c.1.0.ge..go't at\ pal o'
Ootkga.ge cPot kotecNs‘lte

o

Redemption

(generally mortgagor
has redemp rt.)

oke

St

re
erio

ie

Op

fo

ft

PRIORITIES
(Determined by time
when mortgage is recorded)

Prior mortgage prevails over subsq. one.

Unrecorded mortgage not protected.

Foreclosure proceeds insufficient
deficiency judgement allowed.

Transfer by mortgagor:
grantee who assumes mortgage
becomes personally liable.


paTI da

MULSTATE SPECIALIST,*

PROPERTY
MIG 6

Multistate Issue Graph

CONCURRENT ESTATES

A\lk°
s e \

sco cope
,z\,

sso

Co-tenant need not

 share profits

O.
Co
4)

ape

■,.?
/-6,/) 061,

Duties

ec

c
4 \o 0
oo
'1 pa:00°

4)

v w

Go ,po	

Severance

to
Mortgage (title

SPECIAL SITUATIONS INVOLVING
SEVERANCE BY CONVEYANCE

1. A-B-C own Blackacre as joint tenants. A con-
veys his interest to D. B-C own Blackacre as
joint tenants and D as a tenant in common.

theory)

1C1/.%,

0	
ft90

ef,5

l'ore66

2. A-B own Blackacre as joint tenants. A conveys
30% of the property to C. A-B own 70% of
Blackacre as joints tenants and B-C own 30%
as tenants in common.

TENANCY	
IN COMMON

Created

A conveys Blackacre "to
C and D and their heirs
each taking a 1/2 interest".

Incidents of

co-ownership

\C)

\Ao
50S

aid ors,c4

oe' '0°\

JOINT
TENANCY

4 Unities

"TTIP"

A 60

Orta c

e's/O - 0/w

//?/ te tbeir
r7a/Its,,

TENANCY BY 
THE ENTIRETY	

  Created "to H and W, husband and wife
and their heirs."

iamb.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONTRACTS

Contracts. An agreement between two or m
which creates an obligation to do or not to do
thing. Its essentials are competent parties, subjc
legal consideration, mutuality of agreement, an
of obligation. Lamoureaux v. Burrillville Racii
R.I 94, 161 A.2d 213, 215. Under U.C.C., tee
total legal obligation which results from parties
as affected by the Code. Section 1 -201(11).

1.	

2.

3.

Perhaps the most difficult Contracts questions deal with the area of contract formation
(B)	
(i.e., offer, acceptance, and consideration). Under  Restatement of Contracts 2d,  §24, "An
offer is the manifestation of willingness to enter into a bargain, so made as to justify another
person in understanding that his assent to that bargain is invited and will conclude it." Upon
careful analysis of the facts, Taylor's letter to James, Kate, and Livingston does not qualify as
an offer. An offer must evidence a commitment by the offeror that he reasonably intends to
be bound upon acceptance by the offeree, rather than a mere statement of present intention
or preliminary negotiations. This determination is often difficult to make. Generally, such
equivocal language as "I am asking..." or "I quote you..." is construed as inviting an offer.
Taylor's letter stated "I will let you have [the tickets] for a reasonable price." This language
evidences an intention to invite a reasonable offer. Furthermore, at common law, material
terms such as subject matter, identity of the offeree, and  price had to be definite and certain
in order for an offer to be valid. Therefore, Taylor's letter is not an offer. On the other hand,
James' letter is an offer which Taylor chose not to accept. Kate's offer is also valid and, in this
case, Taylor accepted it upon dispatch of his telegram on February 24. Therefore, James will
not prevail against Taylor. Answer choice (B) is thus correct.

CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART #1:

DURATION AND TERMINATION OF AN OFFER

OFFEROR

OFFER

OFFEREE

a. Revocation
(Exception: Option Contracts)

a. Acceptance
b. Rejection
c. Counteroffer
d. Operation of law
1. Lapse of time
2. Death or destruction of subject

matter

3. Death or insanity of either party
4. Supervening illegality

e. Inquiry (Note: A mere inquiry does
not terminate offeree's power of
acceptance).

(B) In light of the previous discussion, Kate's letter to Taylor on February 22 constituted
a valid offer. Taylor accepted the offer by telegram the next day and has a valid cause of action
to recover the $700 contract price for the tickets.  Restatement of Contracts 2d,  §50, states
that (1) Acceptance of an offer is a manifestation of assent to the terms thereof made by the
offeree in a manner invited or required by the offer." Choice (B) is correct. Choice (A) is
wrong because it incorrectly labels Kate's bid as an acceptance of Taylor's offer.

(A) The duration of an offer which states no time limit for acceptance is a reasonable
time. The factors determining a reasonable time are:  (1) the subject matter of the offer;
(2) its rate of price fluctuation; (3) the period within which the offeror's known purpose
in inducing the contract can be effectuated; and, of lesser importance, (4) the mode of
communication of the offer. Undoubtedly, certain offers (such as those involving stock
purchases) have a short life expectancy due to ever changing market fluctuations. Thus, a

pstabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1	

CONTRACTS


4.

5.

6.

7.

bid on the floor of a stock exchange in an active market will create a power of acceptance
lasting only a few minutes. Similarly, under the "face-to-face" conversation rule, an offer
expires at the conclusion of a face-to-face conversation (unless there is an acceptance).

(C) There are no magic words required to extend an offer, but all offers contain three
elements: (1) an expression of intent to enter a present contract; (2) a sufficient articula-
tion of the essential terms of the proposed bargain; and (3) communication of that intent
and those terms to another person (the offeree) who has the capacity to form a contract by
a timely and conforming acceptance. This Contracts question deals with the revival of an
offer. If, in the wake of a rejection/counter-offer, the offeror remanifests an intention to
trade on the terms of the original offer, that offer is once again open to an acceptance by
the offeree. Choice (C) is correct because Chad's statement "Why don't you think it over
until tomorrow?" revived the original offer. It is also important to note that Barney's
acceptance by telephone would be effective even though the offer was by a different
medium. According to UCC 2-206, "an offer to make a contract shall be construed as
inviting acceptance in any manner and by any medium that is reasonable under the
circumstances."

(D) According to Restatement Section 39, "A counter-offer is an offer relating to the
same matter as the original offer and proposing a substituted bargain differing from that pro-
posed by the original offer." Be advised that an  offeree's power of acceptance is terminated
by his making of a counter-offer. Since Plummer's reply letter of March 15th constituted a
counter-offer, his power of acceptance was terminated. Therefore, Plummer's March 20th
letter did not have any legal effect.

(A) This is an extremely "tricky" Contracts question dealing with contract formation relat-
ing to shipment of goods. An order or other offer to buy goods for prompt or current shipment
normally invites acceptance either by a prompt promise to ship or by prompt or current ship-
ment. According to UCC Section 2-206(1)(b), if non-conforming goods are shipped, the
shipment is an acceptance and at the same time a breach.  On the contrary, there is no accep-
tance if the offeror has reason to know that none is intended, as, for example, where the
offeree promptly notifies him that non-conforming goods are being shipped and are offered
only as an accommodation to him. Since Dell did not indicate that the shipment was being
offered for accommodation purposes, it will be regarded as an acceptance (and a simultane-
ous breach).

(D) Approximately 12 of the 34 Contracts questions will cover formation. This same issue
involving "cross offers" was tested last year. The first requisite of a contract is that the parties
manifest their mutual assent to the same bargain. Normally, this will take the form of an offer
and acceptance. Knowledge of the offer by the offeree is essential to acceptance. In cases
involving cross offers, neither offer accepts the other. Since there is no true acceptance,
mutuality of assent is lacking despite the fact that the cross offers contain identical terms. See
Restatement of Contracts  Section 23 for the same illustration on pg. 69.

8. (B) An offer which invites performance of an act as acceptance, rather than a return
promise, becomes irrevocable as soon as the offeree has started to perform the act.  This rule
is deemed essential to prevent hardship to the offeree where his part performance does not
benefit the offeror and so would give him no recovery in quasi-contract. Students should be
advised that although some of the older decisions have applied the logical view that a unilat-
eral offer may be revoked at any time prior to full completion of the act bargained for, by the
majority rule today such an offer becomes irrevocable as soon as the offeree has started to per-
form the act requested. It is important to note that part of the actual performance requested
must have been given in order to render the offer irrevocable. Mere preparation for perfor-
mance, no matter how detrimental to the offeree, will not affect the offeror's power and priv-
ilege to revoke a unilateral offer. In the present example, Tex went beyond mere preparation

CONTRACTS	

2

polish.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9.

10.

11.

12.

inasmuch as he had already saddled Barnum's bronco and he was mounting the horse when
Barnum attempted to revoke. Note choice (A) is wrong because completion of performance is
no longer required to make a unilateral offer irrevocable. Choice (C) is incorrect because the
doctrine of promissory estoppel (or estoppel in pais) applies in situations where the promisee
detrimentally relies on a gratuitous promise made by the promisor. Here, Barnum, the
promisor, did not make a gratuitous promise; he proposed a unilateral contract. Lastly, choice
(D) is wrong because Tex's part performance did not benefit Barnum.

(B) As noted in the previous question, once Tex started to perform then Barnum's offer
became irrevocable. Here, by riding the horse for a full minute, Tex has performed the
requested act. Thus, a contract was formed prior to Barnum's attempted revocation.
Consequently, Barnum is liable for breach of contract if he fails to pay Tex $500 as agreed.

(D) This Multistate example deals with revocation of an offer. As a general rule, the
offeror may at any time before acceptance terminate her offer by revoking it. This is true even
though the offeror has promised not to revoke for a stated time, unless the promise is sup-
ported by consideration. Revocation takes effect only when communicated to the offeree.
This is true even when the offeree learns through a third party that the offeror is no longer
willing to enter into the proposed contract. By the same token,  Restatement of Contracts 2d,
Section 43, states that "an offeree's power of acceptance is terminated when the offeror takes
definite action inconsistent with an intention to enter into the proposed contract and the
offeree acquires reliable information to that effect." Choice (D) is therefore correct because
the revocation took effect when Martin learned of Donner's sale of the stamp collection in the
newspaper article. Note that choice (B) is incorrect because a stamp collector apparently is not
viewed as a merchant. Consequently, UCC Section 2-205 (the "firm offer" rule) is not
applicable.

(C) In bilateral contracts the acceptance consists of the offeree's manifesting his assent by
giving to the offeror the return promise he bargained for. Acceptance is not complete and the
offeror may revoke until the return promise is communicated by the means authorized.
Simpson, Contracts, 2d. Ed., pp. 51-52. In this question, Dealer's written offer expressly
stated, "If you accept, please notify me by Friday." The authorized means of acceptance was
Dealer's receiving notice by Friday. When Collector mailed his acceptance on Wednesday the
purported acceptance was ineffective because the offeror had bargained for a return promise
of notice to be communicated. Therefore, the "mailbox rule" rationale in Choice (A) is incor-
rect. Choice (D) is also incorrect because no assurances were given to trigger the "firm offer"
rule. Since the offer was not irrevocable, Dealer's revocation on Thursday was effective.
Choice (C) is the correct answer.

(B) In the area of contract formation, students are frequently tested on the distinction
between bargained-for consideration (choice A) and conditional gift promises made binding
by reliance (choice B). Promises are legally enforceable where the promisee has relied on the
promise to his injury, even though the reliance was not bargained for. In other words, sub-
stantial and detrimental action induced by a gratuitous promise affords a reason for enforce-
ment of the promise without a bargained-for consideration. In this regard, Simpson states that
"a promisor who invites his nephew to take a trip to Europe or to undertake a college educa-
tion by promising reimbursement for expenses incurred should not, after the action in reliance
is completed, be permitted to escape fulfillment of his promise on the ground that it was one
to made a gift." Contracts, pg. 113. Choice (B) is therefore correct because LeRoy attended
Princeton rather than Rutgers in reliance on Uncle Reggie's promise to pay his first year
tuition. Clearly, there is justification for enforcement of the promise without bargained-for consid-
eration due to the fact that LeRoy would be required to pay $20,000 more in tuition by attend-
ing Princeton instead of Rutgers the first year. Conversely, it is necessary to distinguish this
situation with the well-known case of an uncle  who promised to pay his nephew $5,000 if the

postage

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3	

CONTRACTS

13.

14.

15.

16.

nephew refrained from "drinking, using tobacco," etc., until he was twenty-one. The nephew
fulfilled his uncle's requirements and the court held there was sufficient consideration to sup-
port a contract. Although no economic benefit had been received by the uncle, nonetheless
there was evidence that he was bargaining for his nephew to conduct himself in accordance
with his wishes. In conclusion, this is an important distinction that is frequently tested on the
Multistate and ultimately the question will depend on interpreting whether the promisor
intended to make a gift promise or enter into a bargained-for exchange with the promisee.

(D) When a general contractor, about to submit a bid on a construction project, secures a
bid from a subcontractor for a definite part of the proposed work, and uses the bid to deter-
mine that part of his cost, he often finds after the principal contract is let to him that the sub-
contractor refuses to go through with the job. He must then find another to do the job, usually
at a price much higher than the promised figure. Can he recoup his loss from the defaulting
subcontractor? Yes, the subcontractor is bound under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
Thus, a promisor who induces substantial change of position by the promisee in reliance on
the promise is estopped to deny its enforceability as lacking consideration. The reason for the
doctrine is to avoid an unjust result. Choice (D) is therefore correct because  Restatement of
Contracts, 2d, Section 87(2) provides: "An offer which the offeror should reasonably expect
to induce action or forbearance of a substantial character on the part of the offeree before
acceptance and which does induce such action or forbearance is  binding as an option con-
tract to the extent necessary to avoid injustice."

(C) Under the doctrine of promissory estoppel, Calamari states that  "a promise which the
promisor should reasonably expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and sub-
stantial character on the part of the promisee and which does induce such action or for-
bearance is binding if injustice can be avoided only by the enforcement of the promise."
Contracts, pg. 249. Here, promissory estoppel would provide Cox with the strongest argu-
ment to specifically enforce the exercise of her option to purchase the property. Moreover,
specific performance is an appropriate remedy because the law views property as unique given
the fact that no two parcels of land are regarded as the same. Choice (A) is incorrect because
if Cox did not pay the consideration, then LeGrand wouldn't be in material breach for failing
to honor the option. Choice (B) is wrong because it is the payment, not acknowledgement, of
the consideration that renders the option irrevocable. Alternative (D) is wrong because parol
evidence is admissible to show lack or want of consideration.

(B) Modifications made under the UCC must meet the  test of good faith. If Clutz acted
in bad faith, then the modification would be ineffective and unenforceable. Choice (B) is
correct. Note that (A) is wrong because consideration is not required to support a modifi-
cation under the UCC. Choice (C) is not the best answer because a contract (or modifica-
tion) that does not satisfy the statute of frauds is enforceable with respect to goods that
have been received and accepted. Choice (D) is wrong because it addresses UCC 2-207
language that covers the issue of contract formation. This question centers on the enforce-
ability of a modification, not whether a contract had been formed.

(B) This Contracts fact pattern deals with a personal services contract providing for office
cleaning services for one year. Common law principles—not UCC rules—will therefore
apply. Except where there is an express provision against oral modification, or circumstances
where the Statute of Frauds applies, any contract can be modified or rescinded by the  oral
agreement of the parties, even if the original contract is in writing. See Simpson,  Contracts,
p. 187. However, "Modifying agreements being themselves contracts must be supported by
consideration. If they change the duties only on one side, leaving the duty on the other the
same as under the former contract, they are unenforceable."  Ibid., p. 188. However, a promise
for a new or different performance  (such as by altering the time, character, or nature of the
duties) will overcome the "preexisting duty" rule and serve as valid consideration.  Thus,

CONTRACTS	

4

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17.

18.

Night Owl's promise to perform the cleaning  on Sunday, rather than Wednesday, is suffi-
cient, bargained-for consideration for Molar's promise to pay an additional $500.

(B)	
This same issue dealing with the  pre-existing duty rule  was tested last winter.
According to Calamari, it does not constitute legal detriment when a party performs an act
which he or she is legally obligated to do. In this question, Jewell was hired by the insurance
company to investigate the theft. Since he had a pre-existing duty to perform this service, his
promise to Daisy was not supported by consideration and therefore unenforceable.

(D)	
It is generally accepted that mutual mistake as to the existence of the subject matter
is always ground for avoidance of a contract. The difficulty lies in determining what is the
subject matter. It may be an object, as where A finds a pretty stone and sells it to B for one
dollar, and unknown to both A and B it later turns out to an uncut diamond worth one thou-
sand dollars. A may not rescind and recover the stone. The only mistake was as to the value
of the object, not as to its existence. On the other hand, not the object, but its rare quality, may
be the subject matter, as where A sells to B a stone for two thousand dollars, both of them
thinking it to be a diamond, and it turns out to be a zircon, worth about five dollars. B may
rescind and recover the price paid, on the ground of mutual mistake as to the existence of the
violin as an "original Stradivarius." Therefore, the contract is voidable by Player.

19. (A)	

In accordance with Restatement of Contracts,  2d, Section 20, "There is no man-
ifestation of mutual assent to an exchange if the parties attach materially different mean-
ings to their manifestations and (a) neither party knows or has reason to know the meaning
attached by the other; or (b)  each party knows or each party has reason to know the
meaning attached by the other." Choice (A) is correct because if Benjamin Moore's rep-
resentative, Betty Morgan, referred to Aaron's "long established business" during the
course of their sales negotiations, then Aaron  had reason to know of Morgan's misunder-
standing. If this is true, there is no contract due to lack of mutual assent.

UNILATERAL MISTAKE

MUTUAL MISTAKE

1. Where one person is mistaken regarding terms

of the agreement.

1. Both parties are mutually mistaken re: terms of

the agreement.

2. Unilateral mistake generally will not prevent

2. If their mistake goes to the "heart" or

formation of contract unless the non-mistaken
party knows of the other's mistake.

"essence" of the agreement, it will be grounds
for rescission.

20.

21.

(D) This question deals with the validity of oral assignments. According to  Restatement
of Contracts, 2d, Section 324, "It is essential to an assignment of a right that the obligee
manifest an intention to transfer the right to another person without further action or mani-
festation of intention by the obligee. The manifestation may be made to the other or to a third
person on his behalf and...may be made either orally or by a writing." As a result,
Spendthrift's oral assignment is valid and thus irrevocable. On the other hand, it is important
to point out that oral gratuitous assignments may be revocable.

(A) As a general rule,  all contracts are assignable and delegable except personal service
contracts and long-term requirement contracts. Even though there may be an anti-
assignment provision in a contract, it does not prevent the assignor from assigning his rights.
When an assignor makes an assignment in violation of an anti-assignment clause, the assign-
ment is valid. However, the obligor does have a cause of action against the assignor for breach
of contract, but ordinarily damages will be nominal.

pessbp

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

CONTRACTS

22.

23.

24.

25.

(D) This Multistate Contracts example deals with warranties of an assignor. According
to Restatement 2d, Section 333, "Unless a contrary intention is manifested, one who
assigns or purports to assign a right by assignment under seal or for value warrants to the
assignee (a) that he will do nothing to defeat or impair the value of the assignment, and
(b) that the right, as assigned, actually exists and is subject to no limitations or defenses
good against the assignor other than those stated or apparent at the time of the assign-
ment." In other words, in an assignment for value the assignor impliedly warrants to his
assignee that the claim is genuine and legally enforceable. Based on this rule,  I.B.M., the
assignor, impliedly warranted to Klewel, the assignee, that Telecomp would perform the
installation work. Otherwise, the claim (i.e., Klewel's right to payment of the $80,000
from Prudential) will not be collectible. Note that choice (C) is wrong because in an
assignment the assignor does not act as a surety in guaranteeing the amounts due under the
contract.

(C) True contracts are those in which the parties' obligation(s) arise from actual agree-
ment and intent. If the agreement or mutual assent is manifested in words (oral or written), the
contract is said to be "express." On the other hand, where the mutual undertaking of the par-
ties is inferred from their conduct alone, without spoken or written words, the contract is said
to be "implied in fact." In this hypo, Deke was present while Desmond received the golf
lessons from Snead. Even though the parties did not expressly enter into an agreement with
respect to Desmond, it is clear from their conduct that an "implied in fact" contract was
created. Note that choice (D) is wrong because it addresses quasi-contractual relief. In a
quasi-contract the parties do not have a contract and the court constructs one to avoid
unjust enrichment. Here, the parties have entered into a contract by their conduct.

(D) The traditional view is that equitable relief will be denied unless the matter is one in
which the plaintiff's remedy at law is inadequate. There is no general formula for determin-
ing when a legal remedy is inadequate. As a general rule, however, equitable relief will be
granted in the following situations: (1) when the plaintiff is deprived of something to which
she is entitled and cannot obtain it in the market; (2) the defendant acts in such a way that the
plaintiff may be required to bring more than one suit to effectuate her legal remedy; (3) the
plaintiff is entitled either to money or certain performance by the defendant but the defendant
is insolvent and it is not collectible; or (4) the plaintiff is entitled to damages at law but under
the facts damages are so speculative that any award is likely to be inadequate. Here, Dominic
and Georgia entered into reciprocal agreements promising to leave their entire estates to each
other with the residual to their daughter. Since the parties agreed not to make any testamen-
tary changes in their wills, Dominic's estate has the right to specifically enforce that provision.

(C) It is universally agreed that the employer may not force an employee to work by
means of specific performance. The rationale behind this rule is twofold: (I) money damages
are generally available and (2) it is impossible for courts to properly supervise employment
contracts. Once again remember that the "key" to success on the MBE is reading comprehen-
sion. Here, the question states that this is a suit for specific performance. Thus, choice (C) is
the best answer. Note that choice (B) is a good answer but (C) is preferred because it states
the proper remedy is at law for money damages.

26. (D) Choice (D) is correct because specific performance is available to enforce a contract
for the sale of a unique item of personal property. Here, the subject matter of the contract
(the Ralphio recording) was the only known recording of its kind. As such, Crooner would be
entitled to specific performance of the contract. The condition of certification by Prof.
Erickson was excused by Collette's conduct when she falsely told Prof. Erickson that the
recording was a fake and thus the failure of the condition to occur would not preclude enforce-
ment of the contract.

CONTRACTS	

6

pstabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

27.

28.

29.

30.

(C) Choice (C) is the best choice because Collette's best defense to a breach of contract
action asserted by Crooner would be to establish that  the condition precedent to her duty to
perform (certification by Prof. Erickson) had not been satisfied or excused.  If Prof. Erickson
was given the opportunity to inspect the recording and determined that it was not a genuine
Ralphio recording, then neither party would be obligated to perform under the contract.

(C) This is a really clever Multistate question dealing with liability of a minor for neces-
saries. It is well established that a minor is liable for necessaries furnished him, and it is
generally recognized that this liability is quasi-contractual rather than contractual. As a
consequence of the quasi-contractual nature of the action, the infant may disaffirm an
executory contract for necessaries. Moreover, the infant is not liable for the contract price, but
for the reasonable value of the necessaries furnished. Likewise, a parent is liable for the
reasonable value of necessaries furnished to his or her infant. Based on this rule, choice (C)
is the best answer.

(D) This same issue was tested on the Multistate exam last year. Choice (B) is wrong
because the Statute of Frauds applies to oral agreements for the sale of goods of $500 or
more. In this hypo, we are not dealing with a contract for the sale of goods. Rather the par-
ties are entering into a service type contract. Likewise choice (C) is incorrect because
Dee's promise to pay an additional $1,000 (if she is successful on the bar exam) does not
vary or contradict the terms of the original agreement. Remember the purpose of the parol
evidence rule is to carry out the presumed intention of the parties and to exclude fraudu-
lent and perjured claims. In the present case, the parties clearly intended to honor the
payment of the additional $1,000 upon the condition of Dee's passing the bar exam. Note
that choice (A) is wrong because there is no rule in contract law that invalidates payment
of a "bonus". Also, promises to pay for services are generally enforceable. If past services
are rendered at request and with expectation of compensation, such past consideration is
sufficient to render enforceable a subsequent promise to pay a stated sum. By process of
elimination, choice (D) is thus correct.

(C) Ordinarily the death of the offeror terminates the power of acceptance created by
a revocable offer. But the situation is different when the death occurs  after the formation
of the contract. Death does not necessarily discharge a contract. If a contract, however,
calls for personal performance by the promisor and person who is to render the perfor-
mance dies or becomes ill as to make performance impossible, the promisor's duty is
excused unless the risk was assumed. Conversely, we have a situation where the promisee
not the promisor has died. Calamari states that the  doctrine of frustration of purpose usu-
ally applies in these cases. Moreover, where a contract has been discharged for impossi-
bility or frustration, it is often necessary, in the interest of justice, to adjust the rights of
the parties. In this situation, Calamari notes that recovery for part performance should be
available. Contracts, pg. 534. As a result, choice (C) is correct and Cheri will be entitled
to recover the reasonable value of services rendered despite the fact that the contract was
discharged by frustration.

31. (D) The parol evidence rule, a rule of substantive contract law, states that "when the par-
ties to a contract have put in writing the full and final expression of their agreement, evidence
of any other prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements are inadmissible to vary or
contradict the terms of the writing." In this fact pattern Kernel's prior oral agreement to repay
the loan on or before July 1 contradicts the April 5 written memorandum  which was "writ-
ten and supplied" by the plaintiff, Vault. Had Vault objected to the written terms he should
have done so on April 5, since the memorandum on that date may properly be viewed as a
complete, or integrated, writing of the parties' final expression of their agreement. The issue
of integration is a question of fact  to be decided by the judge. To determine integration under
the prevailing Willison test, if reasonable parties would have included the extrinsic matter

pble

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7	

CONTRACTS

(i.e., the substance of the oral agreement) in the writing, and these parties did not, then evi-
dence of the extrinsic matter may not be admitted, unless used to explain an ambiguity. In this
instance, the extrinsic evidence contradicted, rather than explained, the integrated writing.
Choice (D) is therefore correct.

32.

(D)	
The Statute of Frauds requires that a promise to answer for the debt of another must
be in writing, 1) identifying the parties and the subject matter, 2) stating the terms, conditions,
and consideration, and 3) signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, or his
agent. For such a promise to fall within the Statute for Frauds it must be a  collateral, rather
than a primary, promise. Since Gritz was promising to personally guarantee Kernel
Corporation's debt, rather than his own, the promise was collateral. Choice (D) is therefore
correct. Students should note, however, that where the main purpose of the promisor is to
serve his or her own financial interest, the surety contract is  not within the Statute of Frauds.
Don't be fooled by the fact that Gritz is Kernel's president: Vault sued Kernel as the principal
debtor and Gritz as an individual guarantor.

Examination Tip:

The types of contracts covered within the Statute of Frauds may be remembered by the mnemonic
MY LEGS:

Marriage (a contract in consideration of)
Year (a contract not to be performable within one year)

Land (a contract for the purchase or transfer of an interest in)
Executor (a contract by an executor or administrator)
Guaranty (a contract of guaranty or suretyship)
Sale of goods (a contract for the sale of goods of $500 or more)

33.

34.	

(C)	
The Statute of Frauds prohibits an oral promise to answer for the debt of another.  In
other words, "secondary," or collateral, promises are within the rule and are voidable unless
in writing. On the other hand, according to  Restatement of Contracts 2d, § 116,  "A contract
that all or part of a duty of a third person to the promisee shall be satisfied is not within the
Statute of Frauds as a promise to answer for the duty of another if the consideration for the
promise is in fact or apparently desired by the promisor mainly for his own economic advan-
tage, rather than in order to benefit the third person." Under this so-called "main-purpose"
rule, if Larry (i.e., promisor) sought to act as surety for Electro's primary loan for his
own economic advantage (as 25% shareholder), then his oral promise to guarantee the loan
is enforceable, and choice (C) is thus correct. Choice (B) is not as good an answer because it
is less specific by not considering whether Larry's promise was primary — oral promise
enforceable — or collateral.

(B)	
The parol evidence rule states that once the parties have reduced their agreement to a
writing, evidence of any prior oral or written, or contemporaneous oral 
agreements is inad-
missible to alter, vary, or contradict the terms of the writing. The parol evidence rule has never
prevented proof of an oral or written agreement which varies or contradicts the terms of a
prior written  contract. Simpson, Contracts, p. 196. Since the oral agreement, which Dr.
Dreck claims took place during  the operation, occurred at a point in time  after  the written
contract to perform the surgery had been signed, Dr. Dreck will contend that the parol evi-
dence rule is not applicable as applied to a  subsequent  oral agreement. Choice (B) correctly
states this consideration. Choice (A) is incorrect because the conferral of a clear benefit would
be relevant to recovery in quasi-contract for the value of services rendered; however, quasi-
contract recovery is unavailable where the parties already have a valid existing contract.
Choice (C) is incorrect because the statute of frauds is not a relevant consideration. Even
though the statute of frauds may not apply to personal service contracts, the parol evidence

CONTRACTS	

8

pstabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

35.

36.

37.

rule must be considered whenever an existing written contract is affected by a prior or
contemporaneous oral agreement. Choice (D) is incorrect because it states an irrelevant
consideration. Regardless of the nature of the second procedure, the  payment for it will be
determined by the court's interpretation of the subject matter of the original written contract.

(B) This Multistate question presents an interesting interplay between Contracts and
Evidence. Frequently, parol evidence questions will involve the admissibility of an oral
condition. Where the parties agree that a condition precedent must occur before the con-
tract is effective, it is generally agreed that the failure of the condition to occur may be
shown despite what otherwise would be deemed a total integration.  Thus, even if there is
a merger clause, it may be shown that the instrument was handed over to another with an
oral condition attached to delivery. The theory is that the agreement is not to take effect
until the condition occurs and thus there is no contract to be added to or contradicted until
that time. In this Multistate hypo, Toshi will be permitted to introduce evidence of Kifune's
refusal to approve the fish since the agreement was subject to this condition precedent.

(D) It is important to note that an order or other offer to buy goods for prompt or current
shipment normally invites acceptance  either by a prompt promise to ship or by prompt or
current shipment. As a result, choice (A) is wrong because Celanese could accept Purcher's
order by promising to ship the goods. Choice  (B) is incorrect because in accordance with
UCC Section 2-205, the "firm offer" rule provides: "An offer by a merchant to buy or sell
goods in a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it will be held open is not
revocable, for lack of consideration, during the time stated or if no time is stated for a rea-
sonable time, but in no event may such period of irrevocability exceed three months." So,
therefore, no consideration was necessary to make Purcher's offer irrevocable. As between
answer choices (C) and (D), this is really a close call. However, choice (D) is preferred for
two reasons. First, it states that "Purcher's order was  irrevocable." Thus, choice (D) specifi-
cally refers to the irrevocability aspect as stated in UCC 2-205. Secondly, and perhaps more
importantly, choice (D) indicates that a "contract" was in fact formed. Since this is a breach
of contract action, Celanese will prevail because there was an enforceable agreement in effect.
Choice (C) simply states that Purcher's revocation was ineffective, but does not reach the
obvious conclusion that a contract existed. Once again, students must be familiar with the
"fine line" distinctions tested on the MBE. The best way to sharpen your Multistate skills is
simply by practice. It is a well known fact that performance improves with experience!

(C) In most "requirements" contracts, quantity is measured by the buyer's needs.
Celanese and Purcher have entered into a "requirements contract" whereby Celanese has
promised to supply Purcher with hydraulic fluid in monthly installments for one year.
Although the quantity term has been left out, the contract is still valid under UCC 2-204(3).
Where a buyer's needs significantly decrease over a relatively short period of time, the court
will view the good faith of the buyer. Under UCC 2-306(1)  "good faith" reductions (and
even abandonment) are allowed, such as where the buyer's business needs have actually
fallen off, provided the reductions are not "unreasonably disproportionate to...any normal or
otherwise comparable prior...requirements." White and Summers,  Uniform Commercial
Code, p. 126-127. In light of this rule, answer choice (C) is correct in best stating the rights
and duties of the parties. Choice (A) is incorrect because the "requirements" contract, as dis-
cussed above, was not unenforceable for indefiniteness. Choice  (B) is incorrect because a
buyer must exercise "good faith," not merely close down operations and place a heavy burden
on the seller.

38.

(C) Here, we have a set of Contracts examples dealing with the enforceability of a
"requirements" contract. Such contracts are valid because the quantity to be delivered can be
objectively determined. So a contract by a buyer to buy all the goods of a stated kind required
by the buyer in his business for the period is held not invalid for uncertainty as to quantity. In
the leading case of Minnesota Lumber Co. v. Whitebreast Coal Co.,  43 N.E. 774 (1896), a

ponbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

CONTRACTS

39.

40.

buyer's promise to buy all the coal needed to run his factory for the year would be valid and
enforceable; and failure of the contract to specify the quantity would still render the contract
sufficiently definite since the buyer's requirements could be reasonably ascertained. Note that
choice (D) is wrong because the parties entered into a single  bilateral contract in which
mutual promises are given as the agreed exchange.  Likewise, choice (B) is incorrect because
Nu Skin did not promise to keep the offer open for a stated period of time. Rather, Nu Skin
proposed an offer to supply La Costa's requirements for the facial cleanser during the balance
of the year.

(A) According to UCC Section 2-708 (2), "If the measure of damages provided in sub-
section (1) is inadequate to put the seller in as good a position as performance would have
done then the measure of damages is the profit which the seller would have made from full
performance by the buyer." Under subsection (1) the measure of damages is the difference
between the market price and the contract price. In the present situation, La Costa would be
entitled to net profits because the facts indicate that Geraldine Ferraro's substituted brand is
"less favored and less consumed." As such, La Costa will suffer lost volume sales on account
of Nu Skin's breach. Statement II is incorrect because La Costa's recovery is not limited to
nominal damages. Furthermore, statement III is not accurate because it doesn't reflect the
market price-contract price differential. Note: even though UCC Section 2-708 is a seller's
remedy provision, nonetheless it would probably be applicable because La Costa will be
engaged in the sale of the product.

(D) "Impossibility of performance excuses the promisor's duty where that which was
promised has become objectively impossible of fulfillment without fault of the promisor
after the time of contracting, provided the promisor has not assumed the risk of its now-
happening." Simpson, Contracts, pg. 359. On the other hand, Simpson states that  "the mere
personal inability of a promisor to perform is no excuse.  It is only where because of the
supervening event the performance cannot be rendered by anyone that the duty is discharged."
Ibid., p. 360. Thus, if Ace could have physically performed the renovation work according to
the agreed specifications, his duty will not be discharged by subjective impossibility due to
the finding of asbestos insulation. Ace will be liable for non-performance to Calvin. Choice
(D) is therefore Calvin's most persuasive argument. Lack of representations concerning the
asbestos by Calvin to Ace would only show lack of fraud by the plaintiff, but would not in
itself provide recovery for breach of contract. Accordingly, choice (A) is incorrect. The effect
of a mutual mistake is that there is no contract since there is no "meeting of the minds."
Choice (B) would therefore be incorrect. Choice (C) is incorrect because third-party donee
beneficiary reliance does not provide the promisee (Calvin) with his strongest argument in a
breach of contract action against the promisor (Ace). In fact, in a donee beneficiary contract,
the only remedy of the promisee is an action for  specific performance ordering the promisor
to pay (or perform for) the beneficiary.

41. (D) This question deals with the vesting of a donee beneficiary's rights.  If the promisee
intends the promised performance as a gift to the third party, the latter is a donee beneficiary.
Such intention is clear where performance of the promise will result solely in benefit to the
third party and not to the promisee. Simpson,  Contracts, p. 241. Since Ace's performance of
Calvin's promise was intended as a gift to benefit Patsy alone, and not Calvin, a donee bene-
ficiary situation arises. Under the majority common law view, the rights of a donee benefi-
ciary, as well as those of a creditor beneficiary, vest  when the third party with knowledge
assents to the promise. Before the time such rights are vested, a beneficiary cannot prevent
modification or rescission of the contract by the promisee and the promisor. Patsy's rights had
vested, however, before Calvin and Ace agreed to alter the renovation work. By allowing the
lease option for another office to expire, Patsy changed her position in reliance on her father's
gift and her assent is therefore presumed. Choice  (D) is correct. Since Patsy was an intended
beneficiary choice (A) is incorrect. An incidental beneficiary acquires no rights to enforce a

CONTRACTS	

10

plushy&

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

contract. Choice (B) is also incorrect. Even though the promisor can assert against the bene-
ficiary any defense he could assert against the promisee, Ace has no valid defenses against
Calvin to be used against Patsy, since the facts of the question contain the assumption that
Ace will not be excused from performance. Choice (C) is incorrect because even though
modification at common law requires consideration, a donee beneficiary can only acquire
rights to enforce an agreement against the promisor upon learning of or otherwise assenting
to performance.

CONTRACTS CHART

THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES

Contract

Promisor (X) 

Promisee (Y) 

_

INTENT TO BENEFIT TEST
(Look to Promisee's intent)

(CREDITOR BENEFICIARY)
If Y seeks to discharge a debt or
obligation which he owes to Z,
then Z is a "creditor" beneficiary.

Beneficiary (Z)

I Donee beneficiary
I can enforce rights
I against promisor
I but not against
I promisee.

(DONEE BENEFICIARY)
If Y's intent is to confer a gift,
then Z is a "donee" beneficiary.

42.

43.

(D) Most students incorrectly assume that since Claret is mentioned in the Bouquet-
Vintage contract, he is a third-party beneficiary and choice (A) is correct. Generally, for a ben-
eficiary to be "intended," the third party must 1) receive performance directly from the
promisor, 2) be expressly designated in the contract, 3) have decisional rights regarding the
performance (such as time and location of performance), or 4) stand in such a relationship
with the promisee that it can be inferred that the promisee wished to benefit the third party. In
this question, however, there is an overriding consideration which must be derived from the
facts, namely the intent of the parties. The contract was viewed by Bouquet and Vintage as a
"venture" in which the two parties would "share equally" the profits and losses. Bouquet's
interests would be served by having 500,000 bottles each year carry his name on the label.
Vintage's interests would be served by gaining the one million dollars of working capital.
Neither party had ever dealt with Claret, and Claret was to be used as the distributor only if
"feasible." Therefore, despite language which might at first glance appear to give Claret
enforceable rights as a third-party beneficiary, a deeper analysis of the contractual intent of
the parties shows no apparent motive to benefit Claret. Thus, choice  (D) is the best answer.

(A) Since the growing of grapes in a vineyard is the type of performance which can be
considered unique (such as the services of a doctor, lawyer, or other professional whose own
individual skill is bargained for), Bouquet can successfully argue that the sale of Vintage's
vineyard to Agribiz created a risk of diminished profits, especially since the facts state that
Agribiz had no reputation or experience in wine-grape production. Therefore, by delegating
performance to Agribiz, Vintage was attempting  to delegate a duty involving personal judg-
ment and skill.  Such duties are not properly delegable. Choice (A) is thus correct. Students
should be aware that unlike with assignments, contractual restrictions against delegation of
duties are viewed strictly by the courts.

pbito

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

CONTRACTS

CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART
DELEGATION OF DUTIES

DELEGATOR REMAINS LIABLE
TO OBLIGEE

OBLIGEE 	
(BECOMES A THIRD-
PARTY CREDITOR
BENEFICIARY AFTER
DELEGATION)

■

■
/As ■

4;;;,,• \
"Y+

DELEGATOR-OBLIGOR

L I

A
T I

O

(1) Most duties are delegable

(a) Exception: Where the obligor has
unique skills, training or experi-
ence, then performance by another
person would vary materially
the performance rendered to the
obligee (e.g., personal service
contracts);

(b) Exception: contract prohibitions

always recognized.

(2) After an effective  delegation, the dele-
gatee is directly liable to the obligee
(who becomes a third party creditor
beneficiary).

(3) Note: although the delegatee is primar-
ily liable, the delegator remains secon-
darily liable as surety for proper tender
of performance.

(4) If delegatee defaults, the delegator can
seek specific performance (in equity),
or if the delegatee's breach has caused
the obligee to seek damages from the
delegator, for money damages incurred.

DELEGATEE

4> 4% \
C11) 

P4,N s

64>N ■

49 991.■
44; /0+

1:5• ■

<4'4;

cdt.

'41

4* .\

44.

45.

(D)	 With respect to the manner and effect of rightful rejection, UCC Section 2-602 pro-
vides: "Rejection of goods must be within a reasonable time after their delivery or tender. It
is ineffective unless the buyer seasonably notifies the seller." In the present case, Redwood
accepted delivery and kept the redwood poles at its warehouse for  three months. Since
Redwood failed to reject the goods within a reasonable time, choice (D) most accurately states
the correct answer.

First of all, divisible contract answer choices frequently appear as a "red herring"
(B)	
or "distractor" on the MBE. Here is no exception. Choice (C) is wrong because  a divisible
contract is one in which the parties have divided their respective performances into sep-
arate units. So that performance of a given installment on one side is a constructive con-
dition to the duty of performance on the other. This question does not deal with dividing
performance into separate units. Rather, Guggenheim has agreed to buy five antique vases
from Sparticus in one delivery. In addition, choice (D) is wrong because  the substantial
performance doctrine only applies to construction contracts.  Similarly, choice (A) is
incorrect because a provision F.O.B. at seller's place of business indicates that the seller
must place the goods in the possession of the carrier, and, thereafter, the risk of loss passes
to the buyer. By process of elimination, choice (B) is correct.

46. (A)	 Whenever the seller makes a non-conforming tender, the buyer has three options:
(I) he may accept the whole shipment; or (2) reject the whole shipment; or (3) accept
any commercial unit or units and reject the rest. When the buyer accepts a commercial
unit (as in this question), he is only liable for the unit(s) accepted. According to UCC
Section 2-607, the buyer must pay at the contract rate for the goods accepted.  Choice (A)
is thus correct.

CONTRACTS	

12

plinks*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

47.

48.

49.

50.

(B)	
In the area of seller's remedies, the traditional measure of damages is the differ-
ence between the contact price and the market price at the time and place for tender, less
expenses saved in consequence of the buyer's breach. This measure of recovery, however,
does not consider the so-called "lost volume" seller. Lost volume occurs when the seller
resells to a buyer who would have bought from the seller even if there had been no
breach of the original contract. The result is the seller's total volume of sales by year's
end is reduced by one, and his damages are the profit the seller would have made on that
additional sale. Since Circuit City stood to lose a $200 profit from the original sale, the
correct answer is choice (B).

(C)	
In this example, apparently  "time was of the essence."  In which case, the seller would
not be able to "cure" the non-conforming tender because the contract date of performance had
expired. According to UCC Section 2-508, "Where any tender or delivery by the seller is
rejected because non-conforming  and the time for performance has not yet expired,  the seller
may seasonably notify the buyer of his intention to cure and may then within the contract time
make a conforming delivery." Here, since the contract time had expired, Baker may properly
reject Zeller's non-conforming tender.

(B)	
According to UCC Section 2-714, "Where the buyer has accepted goods and given
notification (of breach), he may recover as damages for any non-conformity of tender the loss
resulting in the ordinary course of events from the seller's breach as determined in any man-
ner which is reasonable." Note that "non-conformity" referred to in this section includes not
only breaches of warranties but also any failure of the seller to perform according to his
obligations under the contract. In the present case, Concita breached his contractual obliga-
tion by delivering 199 bushels of bananas instead of 200 bushels. As a result, Gelson may
recover damages for the non-conforming tender even though he accepted Concita's shipment.

(A)	
This question deals with a non-conforming tender in an installment contract. UCC
Section 2-612(2) provides that "the buyer may reject any installment which is non-conforming
if the non-conformity substantially impairs the value of that installment and cannot be cured."
However, an installment delivery must be accepted if the non-conformity is curable  and the
seller gives adequate assurance of cure. Choice (A) is therefore correct because Gelson would
not be entitled to reject the shipment if Concita gave adequate assurances of cure.

pssibite

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

CONTRACTS

CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART #1:

DURATION AND TERMINATION OF AN OFFER

OFFEROR   

OFFER

OFFEREE   

a. Revocation

(Exception: Option
Contracts)

a. Acceptance
b. Rejection
c. Counteroffer

d. Operation of law

1. Lapse of time

2. Death or destruction of Subject

matter

3. Death or insanity of either party

4. Supervening illegality

e. Inquiry (Note: A mere inquiry does
not terminate offeree's power of
acceptance).

CONTRACTS

14

plushly

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART #2:

ASSIGNMENTS

OBLIGOR -4— 	

 —1.- ASSIGNOR

ENFORCEABLE CONTRACT

\	

•

•

•

•

•

  y0 \	

A I
I
S I	
S I	

‘

•
ts:
0 0 ♦	
le
*IN 01.
.S• ° ♦ I I assignment:
0 I.
v ,"7.1-	
-	
sts tl■ •
tl 1:1‘	
l• 0 •0 op	
11 0
0 ♦
-v	
ee	
VI's. ° \
,s, 4.
0 A ♦	
0 "S•0 ‘	
e,
0 "S'	
0 0 ‘,
11 1.
A	
t.P \	

G I	
N I
M I	
E 

N 

\

T

1	
I	
I
I

I	
I	
I	
I
I	
I
I	
I	

(1) Accomplished unilaterally (without
consent of other contracting party);

(2) Extinguishes assignor's right to
performance and creates it in

  assignee;

(3) Writing not required;
(4) Most rights are assignable except where

(a) materially alters obligor's duty, or
(b) materially impairs obligor's chance
of obtaining return performance;

(5) Rights NOT assignable:

(a) personal service contracts,
(b) requirement and output contracts,
(c) future rights not assignable unless

under an existing contract;
(6) Contract provision prohibiting

assignments is given the effect of
destroying the assignor's right but not his
power to assign.

•

•

•

•

•

• /	
ASSIGNEE

psnbt

muLTISTATE SPECIALIST

15	

CONTRACTS



CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART #3:

DELEGATION OF DUTIES

DELEGATOR REMAINS LIABLE

TO OBLIGEE

DELEGATOR-OBLIGOR

OBLIGEE 

(BECOMES A THIRD-
PARTY CREDITOR	
BENEFICIARY AFTER
DELEGATION)	

♦

♦

♦

♦

♦
-,
-5, ♦	
c‘•11 •
  -7 ,,/, ‘	
  ec∎

I	
I	

I	
D	
I
E I	
L I	
E I	

(1) Most duties are delegable

(a) Exception: Where the obligor has

unique skills, training or
experience, then performance by
another person would vary
materially the performance
rendered to the obligee (e.g.,
personal service contracts);

(b) Exception: contract prohibition

always recognized.

(2) After an effective  delegation, the
delegatee is directly liable to the
obligee (who becomes a third party
creditor beneficiary).

(3) Note: although the delegatee is

primarily liable, the delegator remains
secondarily liable as surety for proper
tender of performance.

♦

♦

(4) If delegatee defaults, the delegator
can seek specific performance (in
equity), or if the delegatee's breach
has caused the obligee to seek
damages from the delegator, for

\	
DELEGATEE money damages incurred.

G I	
A I	
I
I	

‘	

\	
<(■00 ♦•0	
04, I- ♦	
ON ON	T	
tr o \
4,,,
I
-'■ \<■ 
S17 0 ♦	
0 I
1
,. A/	
,qt, ♦‘	
N 
A ♦	
I	
v 0 
0< p0 ♦	
I	
0 
<ttN ♦	
I	
,.., 
.
...-	
-s,,, ♦	
I	
I	

°0', ♦	

CONTRACTS	

16

pssibso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST







CONTRACTS MULTISTATE CHART #4:

RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF PARTIES TO AN ASSIGNMENT

OBLIGOR MAY SUE ASSIGNOR

FOR WRONGFUL ASSIGNMENT.

GENERALLY, ASSIGNOR CANNOT

SUE OBLIGOR BECAUSE HE GIVES

UP ALL RIGHTS UNDER THE

ASSIGNED CONTRACT.

ASSIGNOR

OBLIGOR -4—

Defenses of Obligor
(1) Obligor must have

notice of assignment:
until notice received,
obligor may deal w/ assignor;

(2) Once notice received,

obligor may attack validity
of assignment (e.g., variation
in risk or duty, prohibition
against assignment etc.);
(3) If assignment is valid, notice

requires performance to assignee;

(4) UCC: Modification by assignor and -)
obligor (of an executory contract)  after
notice is effective if in good faith;_

(5) Exceptions:

(a) Estoppel: Under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, where the obligor leads the
assignee to believe that no defense existed, he
(obligor) is estopped to assert it:

(b) Waiver: Although "personal" defenses (e.g.,

failure of consideration or breach of warranty)
may be waived, "real" defenses (e.g., fraud, duress,
illegality, incapacity or forgery) may not be waived.

(6) Note: Obligor may assert counter-claim or set-off

to diminish recovery by assignee.

Assignee v. Assignor

(1) When assignment is revocable,
assignee has no rights against
assignor.

(2) Gratuitous oral assignments: may

be made irrevocable by

(a) reliance
(b) performance
(c) delivery of token chose;

Remedy: If assignor attempts to assign
where irrevocable, assignee may bring
action in tort for conversion.
(3) Assignments for consideration:

irrevocable.

Remedy: Wrongful revocation gives
assignee a claim for breach of implied
warranty.

♦

♦

♦

♦

•

