CONTRACTS

18

possbie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

36. Assume for the purposes of this question that
Purcher is a merchant under the UCC by
virtue of his "knowledge" and "skill" in deal-
ing with goods of this kind. If Purcher persists
in his position that his order was effectively
withdrawn, can Celanese sue him successfully
for breach of contract?

(A) No, because Celanese could effectively
accept Purcher's offer only by the act of
shipping a month's installment of the
hydraulic fluid.

(B) No, because there was no consideration
to make Purcher's offer irrevocable.

(C) Yes, because Purcher's revocation was

ineffective since the purchase order
expressly stated that it was non-can-
cellable.

(D) Yes, because Purcher's order was an

irrevocable order that became a contract
when Celanese accepted it.

37. Assume for the purposes of this question only
that on March 20 a valid contract was entered
into between Purcher and Celanese. In accor-
dance with the terms of their agreement,
Celanese promised "to supply Purcher with
his requirements of Lindol HF-M hydraulic
fluid in monthly shipments for one year com-
mencing on April 1." Purcher in turn
promised to pay Celanese the stipulated price
of $4.25 per gallon. Celanese knew that
Purcher's average daily requirements were 40
gallons, but their contract contained no recital
or estimate thereof. In April, Celanese sup-
plied Purcher with 1,200 gallons of hydraulic
fluid for which Purcher paid $5,100. The next
month Celanese delivered 1,150 gallons
which Purcher paid for at the contract price.
In June, however, a new hydraulic die casting
plant started operating in the neighboring
town of Golden, and Purcher's business began
to decline at once. By August, Purcher's need
for hydraulic fluid had dropped to less than 10
gallons per day. At this time, which of the fol-
lowing best states the legal rights and duties
of the parties under the terms of their agree-
ment?

Regardless of what he decides to do,
Purcher is not liable to Celanese because
the wording of their agreement is too
indefinite to be enforced as a contract.
Due to the unexpected downturn in his
business operations, Purcher can avoid
any further contractual liability by
immediately closing down his hydraulic
die casting plant.
Purcher remains obligated to accept and
pay for his actual monthly requirements
of hydraulic fluid so long as they are not
unreasonably disproportionate to
Purcher's prior requirements.

(D) Purcher remains obligated to accept and

pay for an average of 1,200 gallons of
hydraulic fluid per month for the
remainder of the year because Celanese
promised to supply Purcher's require-
ments on that anticipated basis.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

CONTRACTS

Questions 38-39 are based on the following fact situation.

On April 1, Nu Skin Inc., a wholesale skin care dis-
tributor, wrote the following letter to the La Costa
Spa and Beauty Center:

"Please be advised that we have been granted
an exclusive distributorship for Christiaan
Barnard's GLYCEL Cellular Facial Cleanser.
We hereby offer you at $250 per case (25 bot-
tles per case) for such quantities as you may
need during the balance of this calendar
year."

On April 15, La Costa replied by letter:

"We are thrilled to hear that you will be dis-
tributing Christiaan Barnard's GLYCEL
Facial Cleanser. Our guests and customers
request it more than any other product. We
certainly accept your offer, and expect to use
GLYCEL exclusively to meet all our facial
cleanser requirements the rest of this year."

Thereafter, La Costa ordered and used large quanti-
ties of GLYCEL at its Spa and Beauty Center facil-
ities. Many of its guests and customers even
purchased individual bottles of GLYCEL which La
Costa sold at a retail price of $25 per bottle.
However, on September 30, Nu Skin Inc. sent La
Costa the following letter:

"Sorry to inform you but there has been an
unexpected price increase in the GLYCEL
Cellular Facial Cleanser product. The manu-
facturer has just notified us that the cost of
producing byogenic cellulites, the main
ingredient of GLYCEL, has risen substan-
tially in the last few months necessitating a
price increase from $250 to $300 per case for
the remainder of the year."

After receiving this letter, La Costa concluded that
$300 per case was excessive and then began order-
ing Geraldine Ferraro's Nutra Skin Facial Cleanser
— a popular brand, but less favored and less con-
sumed by La Costa guests and customers from
another wholesaler at $250 per case. Immediately
thereafter, La Costa sued Nu Skin Inc. in a breach
of contract action for money damages.

38. Which of the following is the best legal argu-

ment in support of La Costa's suit?

(A) Nu Skin Inc.'s letter of April 1 was an

offer that became irrevocable because of
La Costa's bargained-for reliance
thereon in ordering and accepting Nu
Skin Inc.'s shipments of GLYCEL from
April through September.

(B) Nu Skin Inc.'s letter of April 1 was a
firm offer of an output contract from
one merchant to another that La Costa
accepted on April 15.

(C) The parties' April 1-15 correspondence

constituted a bilateral contract under
which Nu Skin Inc. agreed to sell and
La Costa agreed to purchase enough
GLYCEL at $250 per case to meet all of
La Costa's requirements for the rest of
the year.

(D) La Costa's first order of GLYCEL in
April was an acceptance of Nu Skin
Inc.'s offer of April 1 for a series of uni-
lateral contracts, and thereby terminated
Nu Skin Inc.'s power of revocation.

39. Assume for the purposes of this question

only that Nu Skin Inc.'s September 30 letter
of a price increase to $300 per case was a
repudiation and total breach of a require-
ments contract. To which of the following
would La Costa be entitled in its action
against Nu Skin Inc.?

I.

The net profits La Costa would have
made from the resale of GLYCEL to its
guests and customers at $25 per bottle
had it been able to purchase the facial
cleanser at $250 per case during the
remainder of the year, less the net prof-
its it made from sales of Geraldine
Ferraro's product during the same
period.

II. Nominal damages only.
III. $50 multiplied by the number of cases
of GLYCEL La Costa would have pur-
chased from September 30 through
December 31.

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I only
II only
III only
I and III only

CONTRACTS

20

P01.6.6
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Questions 40-41 are based on the following fact situation.

Calvin Cline was a wealthy industrialist who lived
in Nashville. Calvin was extremely proud of his
daughter, Patsy, who graduated from Vanderbilt
Law School and had just passed the Tennessee bar
examination. As a graduation gift, Calvin leased an
office suite for Patsy in The Opray Building, an old
prestigious edifice in downtown Nashville. Calvin
promised Patsy that he would pay the monthly rental
and also renovate and decorate the office for her.

Thereupon, Calvin went ahead and contracted in
writing with Ace Building Co. to renovate Patsy's
new law office according to plans and specifica-
tions prepared by Office Interiors, a famous
Nashville architectural firm. According to the con-
tract with Ace, Calvin agreed to pay Ace $15,000 to
perform the renovation work. The agreement recited
that Calvin was hiring Ace to remodel the office as
a graduation gift to Patsy. Relying on her father's
contract with Ace, Patsy, who had an option to
lease another office in a different building, allowed
the option to expire and so advised Calvin and Ace.

After beginning the renovation work, Ace discov-
ered there was asbestos insulation throughout the
walls and ceilings. As a result, Ace notified Calvin
that in order to renovate the office according to the
plans and specifications provided by Office
Interiors, the asbestos would have to be removed at
an additional cost of $25,000. Neither Calvin nor
Ace had reason to anticipate that the asbestos con-
dition would prevent Ace from performing the
remodeling work as per Office Interiors' specifica-
tions.

40. Assume for the purposes of this question only

that Calvin refuses to pay Ace the additional
$25,000 to remove the asbestos. Thereafter,
Ace notifies Calvin that it will not perform
the remodeling work according to the plans
and specifications as provided. As a result,
which of the following facts, if conceded or
provable, would be most persuasive in sup-
porting an action by Calvin against Ace for
breach of contract?

Prior to entering into the contract with
Ace, Calvin made no representations to
Ace concerning the asbestos insulation
in the office.
At the time Calvin and Ace entered into
their contract, neither party knew that
the office was insulated with asbestos.
Patsy had relied on Ace's promise to
remodel the office by canceling her
option to lease another office.
Ace had agreed to perform the remodel-
ing work as per the plans and specifica-
tions provided by Office Interiors, and it
was physically possible for them to ren-
ovate the office according to those plans
and specifications.

41. Assume for the purposes of this question only

that Ace would not have been excused from
performing the remodeling work according to
the original plans and specifications as pro-
vided by Office Interiors. Upon discovery of
the asbestos, however, Calvin and Ace agreed
to radically alter the renovation work so that
the asbestos did not have to be removed.
Thereafter, Patsy did not learn of the changes
until after Ace completed the remodeling. If
Patsy finds the changes to be unacceptable,
will she succeed in an action against Ace for
not renovating the office according to the
original plans and specifications?

No, because Patsy was only an inciden-
tal beneficiary under the terms of
Calvin's contract with Ace.
No, because Patsy's rights under
Calvin's contract with Ace were subject
to any defenses that Ace could have
raised against Calvin.
Yes, because Calvin and Ace's modifica-
tion of their original contract was invalid
since it was not supported by any new
consideration.
Yes, because Patsy had changed her
position in reliance on the original con-
tract that was entered into between
Calvin and Ace.

ponbs•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

CONTRACTS

43. For this question only, assume the following

facts. Soon after making its contract with
Bouquet, Vintage, without Bouquet's knowl-
edge or assent, sold its vineyards but not its
winery to Agribiz, a large agricultural corpo-
ration. Under the terms of this sale, Agribiz
agreed to sell to Vintage all grapes grown on
the land for five years. Agribiz's employees
have no experience in wine-grape production,
and Agribiz has no reputation in the wine
industry as a grape producer or otherwise.
The Bouquet-Vintage contract was silent on
the matter of Vintage selling any or all of its
business assets.

If Bouquet seeks an appropriate judicial rem-
edy against Vintage for entering into the
Vintage-Agribiz transaction, is Bouquet likely
to prevail?

(A) Yes, because the Vintage-Agribiz trans-
action created a significant risk of
diminishing the profits in which
Bouquet would share under his contract
with Vintage.

(B) Yes, because the Bouquet-Vintage con-
tract did not contain a provision autho-
rizing a delegation of Vintage's duties.
(C) No, because Vintage remains in a posi-
tion to perform under the Bouquet-
Vintage contract.

(D) No, because Vintage, as a corporation,
must necessarily perform its contracts
by delegating duties to individuals.

Questions 42 -43 are based on the following fact situation.

A written contract was entered into between
Bouquet, a financier-investor, and Vintage
Corporation, a winery and grape-grower. The con-
tract provided that Bouquet would invest
$1,000,000 in Vintage for its capital expansion and,
in return, that Vintage, from grapes grown in its
famous vineyards, would produce and market at
least 500,000 bottles of wine each year for five
years under the label "Premium Vintage-Bouquet."

The contract included provisions that the parties
would share equally the profits and losses from the
venture and that, if feasible, the wine would be dis-
tributed by Vintage only through Claret, a whole-
sale distributor of fine wines. Neither Bouquet nor
Vintage had previously dealt with Claret. Claret
learned of the contract two days later from reading
a trade newspaper. In reliance thereon, he immedi-
ately hired an additional sales executive and con-
tracted for enlargement of his wine storage and
display facility.

42. If Vintage refuses to distribute the wine

through Claret and Claret then sues Vintage
for breach of contract, is it likely that Claret
will prevail?

(A)

(B)

Yes, because Vintage's performance was
to run to Claret rather than to Bouquet.
Yes, because Bouquet and Vintage could
reasonably foresee that Claret would
change his position in reliance on the
contract.
No, because Bouquet and Vintage did
not expressly agree that Claret would
have enforceable rights under their
contract.
No, because Bouquet and Vintage, hav-
ing no apparent motive to benefit Claret,
appeared in making the contract to have
been protecting or serving only their
own interests.

CONTRACTS

22

pssible

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 45-46 are based on the following fact situation.

After preliminary negotiations, Timberland Comp.,
a lumber manufacturer, and Redwood Fence Comp.
entered into the following written agreement on
May 1, 2006:

"Timberland promises to sell and Redwood
promises to buy 5,000 sections of redwood
stockade fence at $10 per section. Each sec-
tion is to be made of good quality split red-
wood poles and is to be 7 feet in length and 3
feet in height. Delivery to be made on June 1,
2006 with payment no later than thirty days
thereafter."

As per the terms of their contract, Timberland
delivered 5,000 sections of redwood to Redwood's
warehouse facility in Baltimore on June 1st. The
next day Redwood's president, John Woodstock,
inspected the shipment and discovered the pole
sections were all 5 feet long and 2 feet high.
Woodstock then told his warehouse manager that
the poles were non-conforming and to set them
aside until "the problem could be corrected."
Woodstock forgot about the matter until July 1st
when Timberland sent a letter to Redwood
demanding payment. Woodstock failed to respond
to Timberland's letter. There was no further commu-
nication between Timberland and Redwood until
August 1st when Timberland sent another letter to
Redwood demanding payment and threatening legal
action if necessary. Again, Woodstock did not
respond to Timberland's letter; and on September
1st Timberland brought suit against Redwood for
$50,000 or the contract price equivalent.

44. Which of the following correctly states

Redwood's legal rights or liabilities as of
September 1st?

(A) Redwood can return the fence sections
to Timberland and rescind the contract.
(B) Redwood must pay Timberland the rea-
sonable value of the fence sections.
(C) Redwood can require Timberland to

replace the non-conforming tender
with fence sections meeting contract
specifications.

(D) Redwood lost any remedy it may have

had because it failed to notify
Timberland within a reasonable time
that the delivery was non-conforming.

Sparticus, a dealer in antique Italian art, owned a
collection of five hand-crafted vases recovered
from the ruins of Pompeii. The vases were
extremely rare and were made during the first
century A.D. Guggenheim, an antique art collector,
contracted to buy the five vases from Sparticus for
$10,000 each.

Sparticus then shipped the vases to Guggenheim.
During transit one of the vases broke. When
Guggenheim received the shipment, he opened the
package and saw the broken vase. As a result,
Guggenheim contacted Sparticus to inform him
that he would not perform the contract and would
not accept any of the vases.

45. If Sparticus asserts a breach of contract action

against Guggenheim, judgment for

(A) Guggenheim, if the contract provided
that delivery was to be made F.O.B. at
seller's place of business
(B) Guggenheim, because it was a
non-conforming tender

(C) Sparticus, because the contract is

divisible in nature

(D) Sparticus, because he has substantially
performed his side of the bargain

46. Assume for the purposes of this question only

that Guggenheim decides to pay for the four
undamaged vases. In determining the proper
contract price, he will be required to pay
Sparticus

(A) $40,000
(B)

(C)

(D)

the reasonable market value of the four
vases
$50,000, minus the cost to cover the
broken vase
the difference between the contract price
and the market price of the four vases
that Guggenheim accepted

'Dinh SPECIALIST

23

CONTRACTS



Question 47 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

Zeller contracted in writing to deliver to Baker 100
bushels of wheat on August 1 at $3.50 a bushel.
Because his suppliers had not delivered enough
wheat to him by that time, Zeller on August 1 had
only 95 bushels of wheat with which to fulfill his
contract with Baker.

48. If Zeller tenders 95 bushels of wheat to Baker

on August 1, and Baker refused to accept or
pay for any of the wheat, which of the follow-
ing best states the legal relationship between
Zeller and Baker?

Zeller has a cause of action against
Baker, because Zeller has substantially
performed his contract.
Zeller is excused from performing his
contract because of impossibility of
performance.
Baker has a cause of action against
Zeller for Zeller's failure to deliver 100
bushels of wheat.
Baker is obligated to give Zeller a rea-
sonable time to attempt to obtain the
other five bushels of wheat.

On December 15, Harrison Freeman went to Circuit
City to purchase a television. While browsing
around the store, Harrison saw a 30-inch Zenith
console model #867 that he particularly liked. The
advertised list price for the television set was $500.
Sensing a potential sale, Midge Megdel, a store
clerk, approached Harrison and asked if she could
be of any assistance. Harrison indicated that he
wanted to buy the television but he wouldn't have
enough cash until the following Thursday when he
got paid. Midge advised Harrison to sign a standard
contract for the purchase of the Zenith television so
that he could buy it at the $500 list price since a
price increase would be taking effect after January
1st. Heeding Midge's advice, Harrison signed a
standard contract with Circuit City promising to
buy the television on or before December 30 for the
purchase price of $500.

Circuit City had purchased 10 Zenith model #867
television sets from its distributor at a cost of $300
per television. As such, Circuit City stood to make
a $200 profit on the sale of each Zenith model
#867 television set which it sold.

On December 20, Harrison saw the same television
set being sold by Radio Shack for $395. As a result,
Harrison breached his contract with Circuit City
and purchased the same Zenith television at Radio
Shack, saving himself $105. On December 21
Quincy Quillen entered the Circuit City store and
bought the same Zenith television that Harrison
had contracted to purchase from Midge for the
price of $500.

Despite the fact that Circuit City did not lose any
money as a result of Harrison's breach, nonetheless
they have decided to sue him. Circuit City can also
show that it is able to obtain as many television sets
as it can sell.

47. In an action for breach of contract against

Harrison, Circuit City will most likely recover
the following amount of damages:

(A) nothing
$200
(B)
(C)
$300
(D) $500

CONTRACTS

24

rtissixe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Questions 49-50 are based on the following fact situation.

49. Which of the following best characterizes

Gelson was the owner of Gelson's Market, the
largest supermarket in the town of Suburb. On
September 10, Gelson sent the following telegram
to Concita, who was the owner of a banana planta-
tion in Panama:

"Subject to your prompt acceptance, ship at
once 200 bushels of your Conquita bananas
to our supermarket. Thereafter, deliver 100
bushels of bananas by the first day of each of
the following three months. Will pay current
market price for all shipments.

s/Galvin Gelson"

This purchase order was received by Concita on
September 11. The next day, he shipped 199
bushels of bananas to Gelson which were received
and accepted on September 19. At the time Gelson
accepted this shipment, he realized that it contained
199 bushels of bananas not the 200 as ordered.
Nonetheless, Gelson promptly paid for the first
shipment as billed. Concita's second shipment of
bananas was received by Gelson on September 30.
This shipment, which contained the full 100
bushels, was accepted and paid for by Gelson.
On October 10, however, Concita wired Gelson
notifying him that no further banana shipments
would be made.

Concita's shipment and Gelson's acceptance
of the first 199 bushels of bananas?

The shipment was an acceptance of
Gelson's offer, and, by accepting the
non-conforming tender, with or without
timely objection, Gelson waived what-
ever rights he may have had against
Concita.
The shipment was an acceptance of
Gelson's offer, and, notwithstanding
Gelson's acceptance of the bananas,
also a breach of an implied promise
by Concita to deliver according to
specifications.
The shipment was a counteroffer, and
Gelson accepted it by paying for the
bananas with knowledge of the shortage.
The shipment was made for purposes of
accommodation only, and, thus Concita
was entitled to cure the non-conforming
tender within a reasonable period of
time.

(C)

(D)

50.

Instead of accepting Concita's first shipment,
Gelson rightfully might have

refused to accept the shipment unless
Concita assured him that the quantity
deficiency (i.e., one bushel) would be
shipped within a reasonable time
rejected the whole shipment, with an
indication of his readiness and willing-
ness to accept future conforming ship-
ments
rejected the whole shipment, with notice
to Concita that no future shipments,
conforming or otherwise, would be
accepted
rejected part of the shipment and
accepted part of the shipment on the rea-
sonable assumption that the non-confor-
mity would be seasonably cured

pstabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

25

CONTRACTS

CONTRACTS	

26	

tuIwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Criminal law. The substantive criminal law
which for the purpose of preventing harm to
declares what conduct is criminal, and (b)
punishment to be imposed for such conduct. It
definition of specific offenses and general p:
Substantative criminal laws are
liability.	
codified into criminal or penal codes; e.g. U.S
18, California Penal Code, Model Penal Code

Question 1 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 2 is based on the following fact situation.

The state of New Mexico has enacted a criminal
law statute making it unlawful to knowingly pos-
sess, sell or transport narcotics and other controlled
dangerous substances. Scott Scagg was a reputed
drug dealer who lived in Bisbee, Arizona.
Oftentimes Scott would hire drivers to transport
drugs across the southwest.

One day Scott approached Pat Pappas, an acquain-
tance, and offered to pay him $500 to drive a van
from Bisbee to Albuquerque, New Mexico. Pat,
who was unemployed and needed the money,
agreed. Scott then explained to Pat that he would be
transporting a package to a person named Milo
Meeker. Scott placed the package in the glove com-
partment of the van. Pat never asked nor was told
what was contained in the package. The package
contained a kilo of cocaine.

During the 10 hour drive from Bisbee to
Albuquerque, Pat deliberately refrained from look-
ing into the glove compartment and inspecting the
package. When Pat arrived at Milo's residence in
Albuquerque, he was greeted by Milo who removed
the package from the glove compartment. Moments
later, police arrived at the scene and arrested both
Pat and Milo.

2.	

If Pat is charged with violating the aforemen-
tioned New Mexico criminal law statute, he
should be found

(A) guilty because he illegally transported

(B)

the narcotics
guilty, if he should have known that nar-
cotics were contained in the package

( ,) not guilty, unless he had actual knowl-
' edge that the package contained nar-

cotics

(D) not guilty, unless a reasonable person
should have inspected the package to
ascertain what it contained

The Anglo-American criminal law is founded upon
certain basic premises which have been more or
less strictly observed by courts and legislatures
when formulating the substantive law of crimes.
These basic premises concern the requirements of
(1) act, (2) mental state, (3) concurrence, (4) harm,
(5) causation, (6) punishment, and (7) legality. The
first of these basic premises concerns the require-
ment of an act. As a general rule, it is commonly
said that conduct, to be criminal, must consist of
something more than a mere "bad state of mind."

1.	 With regard to the requirement of an act, in

which of the following cases would the defen-
dant, if charged with criminal homicide, most
likely be acquitted because there was no act?

Aaron was a chronic sleepwalker. On
Monday, Aaron got into a violent argu-
ment with his next-door neighbor,
Sidney. The next night, while he was
asleep, Aaron left his home and walked
to Sidney's house. He entered the front
door which was unlocked and ascended
the stairs to Sidney's bedroom. While
still sleepwalking, Aaron went inside
and strangled Sidney to death.
(B) Bernie suffered from an incurable

malignant brain tumor. One night he
stabbed his roommate, Reggie, to death.
Bernie later stated that he could remem-
ber the occurrence clearly. A physician
testified that Bernie's brain tumor could
at times deprive him of his ability to
control his movements.

(C) Cassandra was an epileptic who had

experienced seizures in the past. As she
was driving to work one morning, she
had an epileptic seizure. As a result, she
lost control of her vehicle which went
through a red light and struck a group of
school children who were crossing the
street. Two young girls were killed in the
accident.

(D) Dozer, a drug addict, injected himself
with a speedball, containing a mixture
of heroin and cocaine. A few seconds
later, Dozer began to hallucinate.
Believing that he was a rabid dog, Dozer
attacked his girlfriend, Giselle, and bit
off her nose and ears. Giselle died from
her wounds.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.	

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

Pickney was wearing a grey London Fog raincoat
when he entered Tony Roma's Restaurant for din-
ner. He placed his raincoat on a coat rack located in
the foyer of the restaurant. After his meal, Pickney
picked up a similar grey raincoat believing it to be
his own. The raincoat which he took, however,
belonged to Floyd, another patron. Pickney left the
restaurant and walked a short distance when he
realized that he had taken the wrong raincoat by
mistake. He then returned to Tony Roma's and
placed Floyd's raincoat back on the coat rack. He
found his raincoat which had been partially hidden
under a stack of other coats.

4.	

If Pickney were arrested and charged with lar-
ceny of Floyd's raincoat, he will most likely
be acquitted because

there was a mistake of fact

(A)
(B) he returned the raincoat after discover-

ing his mistake

(CD he lacked the requisite state of mind
(D) there was no fraudulent conversion

3.	

In which of the following situations could a
court applying the common law doctrine most
likely convict Defendant of the crime charged
despite the Defendant's mistake?

(A) Defendant was charged with assault with
intent to commit rape. He admittedly
ripped off Amelda's panties after mistak-
enly believing that she had consented to
engage in sexual intercourse with him.

(B) Defendant was charged with murder. He
shot and killed Boris after a barroom
argument. Defendant mistakenly thought
that Boris had raised his hand to shoot
him when, in fact, the victim was shak-
ing his fist at Defendant to frighten him.

(C) Defendant was charged with burglary.

She broke into her old boyfriend's home
and took a Gorman painting which she
erroneously believed he had given her
before their relationship ended.
cr2) Defendant was charged with bigamy.
She married Derek five years after her
husband, Domino, was reported missing
after a boating accident. Thereafter,
Domino, who had been rescued,
returned alive. A state statute provides
that a person is presumed dead after six
years of unexplained absence. Defendant
mistakenly believed that the statutory
period was four years.

CRIMINAL LAW

2

plinths*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

Sammy Sapp was asleep in his second floor bed-
room when he heard noises downstairs in the living
room. Sammy took a loaded gun from the night
table and descended the stairs. He saw two burglars
running out the front door. Sammy ran outside try-
ing to catch them. Simultaneously, Vernon Vermeil,
an off-duty plainclothes police officer was driving
his car past Sapp's home when he saw two suspi-
cious men running down the street. Vernon stopped
his car in front of Sapp's house and pulled out his
gun. Vernon got out of the car and started walking
toward Sammy who was standing on the front lawn.
Sammy then saw Vernon with his gun drawn. Not
knowing that Vernon was an off-duty police officer,
Sammy shot him with his pistol. Vernon was
wounded but survived the shooting.

5.	

If Sammy is prosecuted for assault with a
deadly weapon, which of the following would
provide him with his best defense?

(A) He shot Vernon only after seeing him

with his gun drawn and walking toward
him.

(B) He reasonably believed that his life was
in danger when he shot Vernon.
Sammy reasonably believed that Vernon
was one of the participants who was
involved in the burglary.

(C)

(D) Vernon did not identify himself as a

police officer.

Inca had been dating Eli for over a year. One day
Inca was walking in Golden Gate Park when she
noticed Eli sitting next to a woman on a park
bench. Inca observed Eli kissing the woman and
passionately embracing her. Despondent by her
boyfriend's public display of infidelity, Inca aim-
lessly began wandering around the vicinity of the
park. As she passed by the Blarney Stone Tavern,
Inca decided to go in and have a drink.

After guzzling down a couple of beers, she started
conversing with Raven, a customer seated next to
her. The two women began commiserating about
their relationships with unfaithful boyfriends. While
they talked, Inca and Raven continued to drink beer
with an occasional shot of Jose Cuervo tequila.
They soon became intoxicated. As they discussed
ways to get back at Eli, Raven suggested that they
set fire to his home. With Inca in agreement, the
two women staggered from the bar and went to Eli's
home.

Under the cover of night, Inca and Raven picked up
little twigs and tree branches and stacked them
along the outside of Eli's home. Inca then lit them
with her cigarette lighter. As the branches ignited in
flames, Inca and Raven hurriedly ran away. Seeing
smoke from his bedroom window, Eli ran outside
and immediately extinguished the fire with a gar-
den hose. The fire slightly charred a small section
of the exterior of Eli's home but did not cause any
significant damage.

6.	

If Inca is prosecuted for common law arson,
she should be found

(A) guilty, unless her intoxication negated

(B)

her criminal intent
guilty, because voluntary intoxication is
no defense since she knew she was set-
ting fire to the dwelling house of
another

(C) not guilty, if her malicious intent was

formulated as a result of her intoxication
(D) not guilty, because the fire only slightly
charred the exterior of the home

pub'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 8 is based on the following fact situation.

This jurisdiction follows the M'Naghten test for
insanity.

7.	

In which of the following situations would
Defendant be found not guilty by reason of
insanity under the M'Naghten rule?

I.

Defendant is paranoid and thinks
Victim's shadow is following him every-
where he goes. Defendant shoots at the
"shadow" and kills Victim.

II. Defendant suffers from schizophrenia.

He has a delusion that victim is trying to
kill him. Under the mistaken belief that
he is acting in self-defense, Defendant
stabs victim to death.

III. Defendant is charged with indecent

exposure. His mental illness renders him
unable to control his sexual impulses.
He was arrested after strolling naked in
a public park.

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I only
II only
I and II
I, II and III

8. Which of the following statements regarding
the entrapment defense is LEAST accurate:

(A)

(B)

It is unconstitutional for the government
to "entrap" a defendant where the defen-
dant lacks a predisposition to commit an
offense.
In most states if the defendant asserts an
entrapment defense, the defendant can-
not at the same time deny the commis-
sion of the offense. However, in federal
prosecutions the entrapment defense is
available even though the defendant
denies one or more elements of the
crime charged.

(D)

(C) Entrapment by estoppel is a recognized
defense where a government official
falsely assures a defendant that his act is
lawful and the defendant reasonably
relies on that advice.
If an undercover federal agent supplies
contraband (e.g., cocaine) to a willing
buyer, the buyer has been entrapped as a
matter of law. Then the prosecution must
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
defendant-buyer had a predisposition to
commit the criminal act prior to first
being approached by a government
agent.

CRIMINAL LAW

4

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 9 is based on the following fact situation.	

Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

10. In which of the following situations is

Defendant most likely to be found guilty of
manslaughter rather than murder?

Not intending to kill, Defendant hits a
person over the head with a baseball bat.
As a result, the person dies from head
injuries.
Not intending to kill, Defendant throws
a baseball off the top of a four-story
apartment building onto a busy public
street below. The baseball strikes a
pedestrian, killing her.
Not intending to kill, Defendant rapes
victim in a remote area of the desert.
Defendant then drives off leaving victim
alone in the sweltering heat. The next
day, victim dies from exposure as she's
unable to reach the nearest town eight
miles away.

(D) Not intending to kill, Defendant, at a

party, pushes a nine year-old child into a
swimming pool and the youngster
drowns.

Beater was employed as a chemist for the DuPont
Corporation. After work each afternoon, Beater
would customarily have a couple of martinis at
Schooner's Tavern with his cronies before returning
home. When Beater got intoxicated, he often
became violent and physically abused his wife,
Beatee. One evening, Beater came home drunk and
asked Beatee, "What's for dinner?" Beatee replied,
"Your favorite, Dear, hot dogs and beans." Irritated,
Beater slapped Beatee several times across the face
and said, "I'm sick of hot dogs every night. Can't
you ever make anything else?" He then stormed out
of the apartment and told Beatee that he was going
to the bar to have some beef jerkies and beer for
dinner.

A couple hours later, Beatee was looking out the
apartment window when she saw Beater staggering
across the street. He was visibly intoxicated and
clearly had trouble keeping his balance. When
Beater reached the middle of the street, he col-
lapsed and fell face down on the pavement. Seeing
her husband lying in the street, Beatee's initial reac-
tion was to go outside and assist him. However, she
decided not to because she was still angry for the
beating she received earlier in the evening. Minutes
later, Spud was driving his car at an excessive rate
of speed and struck and killed Beater. Spud failed
to see Beater lying in the street because his car
lights were not functioning.

9.	

If Beatee is subsequently charged with
Beater's murder, she should be found

(A) guilty of murder, because she had a duty

to assist him

(B) guilty of murder, only if the jury finds

that she intended to cause her husband's
death

(C) not guilty of murder, but guilty of

manslaughter

(D) not guilty of either murder or

manslaughter, because her failure to
assist Beater was not the actual cause of
his death

psnbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

Victim had a serious back condition that resulted
from his military duties while stationed in Iraq.
Following his return home, Physician warned him
that if he ever injured his back, even in a slight
accident or by lifting a heavy object, he could be
permanently paralyzed. Defendant was aware of
Victim's medical condition. One day, after learning
that Victim was dating Defendant's ex-wife,
Defendant became upset and decided to cut off the
legs of Victim's favorite chair, which he did. The
next day, when Victim sat down in his favorite
chair, the chair toppled over and Victim was thrown
to the floor. Victim was immediately taken to the
hospital, but died the next day because of his back's
weak condition. Defendant is charged with the
offense of murder.

Murder in this jurisdiction is defined as the "unlaw-
ful killing of another person with malice afore-
thought." First-degree murder is defined as "pre-
meditated and deliberate killing or any killing dur-
ing the commission of burglary, rape, robbery or
arson. Second-degree murder is all other killings at
common law. Manslaughter is defined as any
unlawful killing without malice when the defendant
acts in the "heat of the blood."

Defendant claims he is not guilty of murder
because he did not intend to kill Victim.

11. Defendant should most likely be found

(A) guilty of first-degree murder
(B) guilty of second-degree murder
(C) not guilty of murder if he was unaware
of Victim's pre-existing medical
condition

(D) not guilty of murder, but guilty of

manslaughter if Defendant was acting in
the "heat of passion" when he cut off the
legs to Victim's chair

Jimbo was a professional tennis player. During a
championship match against Bork, Jimbo dived for
a shot and injured his Achilles tendon. Unable to
continue the match, Jimbo was forced to forfeit the
game to his opponent. Afterwards, the doctor deter-
mined that Jimbo's tendon was severely torn and
placed his leg in a full length cast.

That night Jimbo was extremely depressed because
he knew his injury would cause him to miss the
upcoming U.S. Open Tennis Tournament. To try to
lift his spirits, Jimbo went out for a few drinks with
his friends. As he was sitting at the bar with his
injured leg extended onto the next stool, Bork came
by. Intending to needle Jimbo, Bork said, "Gee,
Jimbo, that was some dive you took. But you know
I would have beat you anyway." Bork then began to
tap his beer bottle against Jimbo's cast. Jimbo,
already sensitive to the fact that his career was in
jeopardy, became very upset and told Bork to "get
lost." When Bork continued to tap his cast, Jimbo
picked up a beer bottle and struck Bork over the
head with it. Bork fell backwards on the floor and
died from the blow. At the time he hit Bork, Jimbo
had been drinking heavily and was visibly
intoxicated.

12. Jimbo is charged with murder. He claims that
the murder should be reduced to manslaugh-
ter. In accordance with the Model Penal Code,
the appropriate standard the court should use
to determine Jimbo's defense is that of

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

a reasonable man
a professional tennis player who is
intoxicated
a professional tennis player with an
injured leg
a professional tennis player with an
injured leg who is intoxicated

CRIMINAL LAW

6

pssebta

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

Yancy and Yolanda Yeager threw a high school
graduation party for their eighteen-year-old son,
York. The party was held at the Yeager home in
Mission Viejo. During the party the Yeagers served
beer and wine to York and his classmates. One of
York's teenage friends, Trina Twilley, became
inebriated after drinking three beers at the party.

When the party ended, Trina decided to drive home
in her automobile despite being intoxicated. She
drove through a red light and crashed into a vehicle
driven by Marshall Macon. Marshall, who was
operating his car with due diligence, was killed in
the accident.

The minimum drinking age for alcoholic beverages
in this jurisdiction is twenty-one. Thereafter, Trina
was prosecuted for involuntary manslaughter. Yancy
and Yolanda were charged with the misdemeanor
offense of furnishing liquor to a minor.

13. Assume for the purposes of this question that

Trina was acquitted but Yancy and Yolanda
were convicted. Following Trina's acquittal,
the prosecuting attorney decided to prosecute
Yancy and Yolanda for involuntary
manslaughter. Which of the following would
provide the defendants with their best
defense?

(A) Double Jeopardy.
(B) Res Judicata.
(C) Collateral Estoppel.
(D) Their actions were not the proximate

cause of the victim's death.

Belle and Ramirez were unemployed basket
weavers who had recently been terminated from
their jobs. As they were commiserating their
misfortune, Belle thought of a great "get rich
quick" scheme to defraud his insurance company.
Belle told Ramirez that he was insured under a
State Farm policy covering personal injuries. He
suggested that Ramirez shoot him in the arm in a
fake robbery attempt so that he could file a phony
insurance claim to recover damages for his injury.
In this jurisdiction it is a felony to file a false
insurance claim.

As part of their scheme, Ramirez went to Belle's
home one evening with a loaded pistol. They were
standing together in the kitchen discussing how to
best implement their plan. Finally, Belle told
Ramirez to shoot him in the arm and then flee from
the residence. After being shot, Belle planned to
call 911 and have an ambulance transport him to
the hospital where he would be treated for his
wound. Following Belle's instruction, Ramirez pro-
ceeded to shoot Belle in the arm. Thereupon, Belle
telephoned 911 to report the shooting and requested
an ambulance immediately be sent to his home.

Believing that Belle only suffered a superficial arm
wound, Ramirez drove home after the shooting. The
bullet, however, severed an artery and Belle began
to bleed quite profusely. Before the ambulance
arrived, Belle lost consciousness from the loss of
blood and passed out on the kitchen floor. When
the paramedics arrived at Belle's home, they were
unable to revive him and he was pronounced dead
at the scene.

14. Which of the following is the most serious
crime for which Ramirez should be found
guilty?

(A) Felony-murder
(B)

Intent to inflict serious bodily injury
murder

(C) Assault with a deadly weapon
Involuntary manslaughter
(D)

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

CRIMINAL LAW


Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 16 is based on the following fact situation.

Justin was an unemployed auto worker who lived
outside Detroit in the town of Southfield. Unable to
pay his rent, Justin was desperately in need of cash.
To alleviate his unfortunate predicament, Justin
decided to rob Campy's Compost, a neighborhood
convenience store. He planned to use a toy pistol
that resembled a real gun. At no time did Justin
intend to injure anybody.

The following day, Justin entered Campy's with the
toy pistol tucked under his shirt. As he approached
the counter, the gun slipped from his shirt and
rolled onto the floor. As Justin went to retrieve it,
Campy, the proprietor, saw what was taking place
and pulled out his own pistol. Believing that a
robbery was afoot, Campy fired his gun at Justin.
The bullet missed Justin but struck a customer,
killing her instantly. Justin then fled without taking
any money.

15. Justin is subsequently prosecuted for felony-

murder and acquitted. In all likelihood, his
acquittal was based upon the fact that

the customer's death was accidental

(A)
(B) under the Redline view a felon cannot

be found guilty for an unintended death
which he did not cause

(C) no robbery occurred
(D)

Justin employed a toy pistol

Skakel, a freshman at the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor, was pledging Zeta Eta Mu (ZEM) fra-
ternity. During the "hell week" initiation ritual,
each pledge was required to perform an act to
demonstrate his courage and manhood.

Accompanied by a group of ZEM members, Skakel
went to the State Street overpass that extended
across Interstate Highway 95. The overpass was ele-
vated at an upper level approximately fifty feet
above the highway.

Skakel then pulled out a five pound bowling ball
that he had been carrying in a bag. He lobbed the
ball from the overpass onto the highway below.
Skakel had hoped that the ball would fall harm-
lessly to the pavement. However, the ball crashed
through the front windshield of a car driven by
Mahorn. The bowling ball struck Mahorn causing
him to lose control of his vehicle. The car swerved
across the highway and crashed into a telephone
pole. Mahorn was killed in the wreckage.

In this jurisdiction first degree murder is defined as
any willful killing of another human being commit-
ted with premeditation or deliberation. Second
degree murder covers all other unlawful killings
with express or implied malice aforethought.
Manslaughter is defined as any homicide commit-
ted as a result of adequate provocation or caused by
defendant's criminal negligent conduct.

16. If Skakel is charged with criminal homicide,

he should be found guilty of

(A) murder in the first degree
(B) murder in the second degree
(C) manslaughter
(D) none of the above

CRIMINAL LAW

8

pinhp

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 17 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

Speedster was driving his car recklessly at a high
rate of speed through a residential neighborhood.
He was traveling at a speed of over 100 miles per
hour when he noticed a scantily clad female jogger.
Taking his eyes off the road, Speedster failed to see
Lisa, six years of age, crossing at the intersection.
She was struck by the vehicle and hurled 50 feet in
the air. As a result of the collision, Lisa suffered
severe internal injuries and fractured both legs and
arms. She was hospitalized for 11 months and
became permanently crippled.

18. If Speedster is charged with attempted mur-

der, he should be found

(A) guilty, because a person is presumed to
intend the natural and probable conse-
quences of his or her acts

(B) guilty, because criminal liability is pred-
icated upon defendant's willful and wan-
ton disregard for the safety of others
(C) not guilty, because defendant did not

intend to kill Lisa

(D) not guilty, if defendant offered to pay

Lisa's medical expenses

After Wife found out about Husband's infidelity,
she decided to have him killed. Wife approached
Cain to solicit his assistance in carrying out the
planned murder. Although Wife believed that Cain
was a "hit man" for the Mafia, he in fact was an
FBI agent investigating organized crime.

Wife told Cain she would pay him $10,000 if he
accepted the job and then pay him an additional
$10,000 after the killing was completed. Upon
hearing Wife's proposal, Cain manifested his com-
plete concurrence in the scheme and expressed his
willingness to participate. However, Cain secretly
intended not to go through with the plan and he
merely feigned agreement because he wished to
trap Wife. Wife told Cain she would deliver the
first payment the next day. But before making the
initial payment, Wife learned that Cain was really
an FBI agent. Fearful that she might be prosecuted
for planning Husband's murder, Wife contacted the
police and reenunciated her participation in the
criminal endeavor.

17. At common law, Wife will most likely be

found

(A) guilty of solicitation
(B) guilty of conspiracy to commit murder
(C) guilty of solicitation and conspiracy to

commit murder

(D) guilty of neither solicitation nor conspir-
acy to commit murder because under the
circumstances she manifested a com-
plete renunciation of her criminal intent

pmsbv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation. 	

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

Kareem, Russell and Elgin went to Wilt's house.
Kareem intended to take a John Coltrane jazz
album that he believed was his and Wilt was keep-
ing unlawfully. Russell believed that the John
Coltrane album was Wilt's and intended to help
Kareem take it. When Elgin learned that Kareem
and Russell were going to break into Wilt's home,
he decided to accompany them. He planned to find
some items inside which might be worth taking.

Arriving at Wilt's home, Kareem opened the front
door which was closed but unlocked. Upon enter-
ing, Elgin went to Wilt's upstairs bedroom and
found a Rolex watch which he took. In the mean-
time, Kareem and Russell went to the living room
and began rummaging through Wilt's record collec-
tion. Kareem found the John Coltrane album which
he seized. The three men then left Wilt's home.

In this jurisdiction, burglary is defined as the
breaking and entering of any structure with the
intent to commit a felony or larceny therein.

20. Which, if any, individuals should be found

guilty of conspiracy?

(A) Kareem, Russell and Elgin
(B) Kareem and Russell
(C) Russell and Elgin
(D) None

19. In which of the following situations will

pefendant be found NOT guilty of attempt?

Ak.)

(RC

(C-

(B

Defendant walks into a liquor store with
a loaded gun hidden in his coat pocket.
He approaches the proprietor who is
standing behind the cashier's counter.
Defendant pulls out the gun, points it at
the proprietor and demands the money
from the cash register. The proprietor
hands over the money to Defendant.
After fleeing the store, Defendant is
arrested in the parking lot as he is trying
to make his get-away. Defendant is
charged with attempted robbery.
One night Wright decided to set fire to
his own home intending to collect the
insurance proceeds. He put together an
explosive device and lit the fuse that was
supposed to detonate after a ten minute
interval. After lighting the fuse, Wright
left the dwelling and drove to a local
bar. Unknown to Wright, the fuse
became disjointed and did not trigger
the explosive device. In fact, none of the
structure was burned or damaged. When
Wright carried out his plan, he believed
that setting fire to one's home consti-
tuted arson. Wright is charged with
attempted arson.
Defendant was having a heated argu-
ment with her husband after learning of
his infidelity. As the argument "heated
up," Defendant pulled a gun from her
purse and threatened her his life. When
her husband attempted to grab the gun,
Defendant placed the gun at husband's
head and pulled the trigger twice.
Unknown to Defendant, the gun was not
loaded and husband was not injured.
Defendant is charged with attempted
murder.
Defendant invited a female acquaintance
to his home for dinner. Following din-
ner, Defendant and his guest began kiss-
ing and caressing each other. When
Defendant suggested they go to his bed-
room, the woman objected. Defendant
then pulled down his pants and tried to
engage in intercourse with her. Because
he was impotent, Defendant was unable
to penetrate his victim. Defendant is
charged with attempted rape.

CRIMINAL LAW

10

pssabie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Margo went ahead and entered Professor Bork's
office. While inside, she saw the medicine bottle on
top of the desk, picked it up and placed it inside her
pocketbook. She then walked across the hallway to
the bathroom and poured the medicine down the
toilet. Later that same afternoon, Professor Bork
had a violent asthma attack and went to his office
urgently in need of his medicine. Unable to find his
medicine, Professor Bork's breathing became seri-
ously impaired and he lost consciousness. A few
minutes later, Professor Bork was found dead lying
on his office floor. An autopsy report listed the
cause of death as an acute asthma attack and con-
cluded that he would have survived had he taken
his medicine.

21. If Vinnie is charged with conspiracy for

Professor Bork's death, under the Model Penal
Code he should be found?

(A) guilty, because there was a unilateral

agreement to participate in the criminal
endeavor
guilty, unless Margo is acquitted of con-
spiracy

(B)

(C) not guilty, because there was no true

agreement

(D) not guilty, because he did not communi-

cate his intent to participate in the plan
to either Margo or Tyler

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

Margo Miranda and Tyler Tarlow were third-year
students at New York University Law School.
During their last semester Margo and Tyler were
enrolled in Professor Bork's Morality of the Law
class. Professor Bork, who had a reputation as
being NYU's most unpopular faculty member
because of his perennial low grades, failed Margo
and Tyler. On account of their failing "F" grades,
Margo and Tyler did not have enough credits to
graduate and were forced to attend summer school.

Shortly thereafter, Margo and Tyler were in the law
school lounge and discussing how much they hated
Professor Bork. Margo and Tyler both knew that
Professor Bork suffered from a serious asthma con-
dition which necessitated frequently taking medi-
cine to assist in his breathing. Margo, who was
aware that Professor Bork kept his medicine locked
in a desk drawer in his office, suggested that they
take his medicine and throw it away. Tyler agreed
that it was a great idea and said, "Well, he may have
an asthma attack and need his medicine." Margo
then responded, "Yea. Let's hope he does and then
he won't be able to breathe." Unknown to either
Margo or Tyler, their conversation was overheard by
Vinnie Del Negro another student who Professor
Bork had flunked.

Vinnie who also hated Professor Bork, decided to
join Margo and Tyler and participate in their plan.
Although Vinnie didn't say anything to either
Margo or Tyler, he immediately went to Professor
Bork's office, broke into his locked desk with a
penknife and found the bottle of medicine. He then
left the bottle on top of the desk so it could easily
be found by Margo and Tyler. Vinnie then hurriedly
left the room. A few minutes later, Margo and Tyler
went to Professor Bork's office. As they were about
to enter, Tyler got "cold feet" and said, "I've
changed my mind...I don't want to go through with
this." As Tyler started to walk away, Margo said,
"You coward. I'll handle this slimeball by myself."

pink.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

22. At common law, Igor is guilty of

conspiracy only
conspiracy and robbery
conspiracy, robbery and murder

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D) no crime

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

On Monday, Able, Baker and Charlie agreed to rob
the First National Bank on the following Friday
morning. The next day, Tuesday, Charlie, without
notifying Able or Baker, stole a car to be used as
the getaway vehicle in the robbery. The next day,
Wednesday, Charlie was arrested by the police for
parole violations and was placed in jail without
bail. Nevertheless, Able and Baker proceed with
their plan to rob the bank. Baker, however, is a
police informant who notifies the police of the
pending robbery. The police wait at the bank and
arrest Able as he enters the bank. Conspiracy in this
jurisdiction requires proof of an overt act in addi-
tion to an agreement.

23. Charlie may be convicted of?

(A) Theft of the car only
(B) Theft and either conspiracy to commit
robbery or attempted robbery, but not
both

(C) Theft and attempted robbery only
(D) Theft, conspiracy to commit robbery,

and attempted robbery

Divoc and Igor were short-order cooks who worked
at Zucky's Restaurant in Hampton Heights. Divoc
was extremely displeased with his job and con-
stantly complained about the low wages and long
hours. One day Divoc approached Igor and told him
about a foolproof scheme to rob a local bank. At
first Igor thought Divoc was kidding and shrugged
off the suggestion as though it were a joke. But
Divoc persisted and asked Igor to assist him in the
robbery by driving the getaway car. Igor then
changed his mind and agreed to participate in the
bank robbery.

On the day appointed for the commission of the
crime, Igor drove over to Divoc's house and picked
him up. Thereupon, Divoc instructed Igor to drive
to the Evergreen Bank where the holdup was to
take place. On the way to the bank, Igor explained
that he needed to stop and buy a pack of cigarettes.
Moments later, Igor saw a 7-11 Store, which was
located about three miles from the bank, and pulled
into the parking lot. While Divoc waited in the car,
Igor went inside the store and started having second
thoughts about his involvement in the robbery. He
then decided to withdraw from the crime and hur-
ried to a pay telephone at the back of the store.

He called the local 911 emergency number and told
the dispatcher that a robbery was about to take
place at the Evergreen Bank and please notify the
police immediately. The dispatcher, however,
thought that Igor was a crank caller and did not
take him seriously. After Igor realized that the dis-
patcher was not going to take any affirmative
action, he then reached into his pocket to get a
quarter to call the police. Unfortunately, Igor did
not have any more pocket change to make another
call. He then proceeded back to the parking lot and
noticed that his car was missing. Igor had left his
keys in the car and the engine running when he
went inside the store. When he didn't emerge right
away, Divoc got nervous and drove off by himself

While Igor pondered his next move, Divoc went to
the bank and carried out the robbery. After collect-
ing his booty, Divoc fled the crime scene in Igor's
car. With the police in hot pursuit, Divoc ran
through a red light and crashed into a truck driven
by Puhl. Divoc and Puhl were both killed in the
collision.

CRIMINAL LAW

12

pstabze

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

Nelson and Jack agreed to rob a local grocery store
and steal cigarettes, beer and cash from the register.
The plan was for Jack to use an unloaded gun and
Nelson to be the getaway driver. Jack entered the
store, while Nelson waited outside in the car.
However, Jack forgot to remove the bullets from his
gun, entered the store and stuck the gun in the
stomach of the store clerk.

Before the clerk could hand Jack any money, Jack
glanced outside the store window and saw a police
officer questioning Nelson because his car was
parked in a handicapped zone. The police officer
entered the store and was shot and killed by Jack.
This jurisdiction follows common law conspiracy
rules.

24. Under these facts, what crimes can Nelson be

convicted of?

(A)

(B)

(C)
(D)

conspiracy and attempted robbery, but
not felony murder because Nelson did
not shoot the officer.
conspiracy, attempted robbery, and
felony murder
conspiracy, robbery and felony murder
robbery and felony murder, but not con-
spiracy because neither Jack nor Nelson
committed an overt act in furtherance of
the conspiracy prior to the crime(s)
committed at the store.

Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Jesse was the leader of the notorious "Hole In The
Wall Gang" which consisted of a group of thugs
who committed a string of robberies, burglaries and
thefts in the Sheepmeadow section of Brownsville.
After committing a number of smaller crimes
mostly in the residential section of town, Jesse
decided to go "big time" and rob the First National
Bank in the heart of downtown Brownsville.

As part of the plan, Jesse and James would enter
the bank while Raven, the only female member of
the gang, would drive the getaway car. As they were
driving to the bank on the morning of the robbery,
Jesse saw a hitchhiker thumbing a ride. He ordered
Raven to stop the car and pick up the hitchhiker.
When the hitchhiker named Mitch entered the car,
Jesse asked him where he was going. Mitch
responded that he was going to Baytown which was
located about 5 miles north of Brownsville.

A few minutes later, the car pulled up in front of
the bank and Jesse turned to Mitch and said,
"Listen, buddy, we're going inside and rob this
place. I want you to stay in the car with Raven and
help her keep a lookout for any cops." Startled by
the chain of events Mitch feigned agreement by
shaking his head.

Jesse and James then entered the bank and bran-
dishing their weapons ordered everyone on the
floor. They went to the nearest counter and com-
manded the teller to fill up a bag with all the cash
she had in the drawer. After they were handed the
loot, Jesse and James fled to the car and made a
hasty getaway. While the bank robbery was in
progress, Mitch remained in the car and sat silently
in fear.

The group then sped toward Baytown where their
hideout was located. Upon reaching Baytown, they
drove Mitch to his destination. As he was leaving
the vehicle, Jesse gave him a $100 bill and thanked
him for his help.

25. With respect to Mitch's criminal liability,
which of the following statements is most
accurate?

(A) Mitch is guilty of bank robbery as an

accomplice.

(B) Mitch is guilty of bank robbery as a co-

conspirator.

(C) Mitch is guilty of bank robbery as a
principal in the second degree.
(D) Mitch is not subject to accomplice lia-

bility.

piubt'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 26 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 27 is based on the following fact situation.

Sissy Seagull and her boyfriend, Lex Laker, went to
the movies to see Blue Velvet, a picture starring
Dennis Hopper. Neither Sissy nor Lex particularly
liked the film. About half-way through the movie,
they went to the lobby and purchased some popcorn
and soda. As they were walking back inside to their
seats, Lex turned to Sissy and said, "You know this
movie stinks...let's just leave." Sissy responded,
"O.K., but let's have some fun first. After we go
back inside, why don't you scream 'FIRE.' It'll be
fun to see everyone run for their lives."

Lex and Sissy then returned to their seats. A few
minutes later, Lex lit a match inside the theatre and
threw it down the aisle. As he did so, Lex stood up
and screamed, "FIRE! FIRE!" This caused a panic
as everyone rushed for the exits. During the stam-
pede that followed, Hilda Hilton, one of the movie-
goers, got crushed in the human wave trying to
leave the theatre. She suffered a broken leg and
multiple abrasions. A subsequent police investiga-
tion revealed that the match thrown by Lex black-
ened the floor of the theatre.

27. Based upon the given facts, Sissy and Lex

should be found guilty of

arson

(A)
(B) battery
(C)
(D) battery and conspiracy to commit bat-

conspiracy to commit battery

tery

The Ames Penal Code provides:

"Section 21. An assault is an unlawful
attempt, with or without present ability, to
commit a battery on the person of another. It
is a misdemeanor punishable by imprison-
ment of up to 6 months."

Harry Sapiens was a lawyer who worked in the law
firm of Scylla and Charybdis, located in
Amityville, Ames. Harry, who had a reputation of
being a prankster, decided to play a practical joke
on Seymour Scylla, the senior partner of the law
firm. Harry donned a cowboy mask and entered
Mr. Scylla's office. As Mr. Scylla was talking on
the phone with his back to the door, Harry pulled
out a toy cap gun and said, "This is a stickup...give
me your wallet or I shoot." When Mr. Scylla turned
around to face Harry, he pulled the trigger of the
gun. This caused the toy pistol to make a loud
noise, but Mr. Scylla was not struck by anything.

Although Mr. Scylla was not frightened, he fired
Harry because of the incident citing unprofessional
conduct. Harry was subsequently charged with
criminal assault under the above mentioned penal
code statute. At trial, Harry testified that he was
only playing a practical joke on Mr. Scylla and was
trying to scare him as a harmless prank.

26. If the jury believes Harry, they should find

him

(A) guilty, because he intended to frighten

(B)

Mr. Scylla
guilty, because the statute does not
require the present ability to commit a
battery

(C) not guilty, because Harry did not intend

to cause physical injury to Mr. Scylla
(D) not guilty, because the facts state that
Mr. Scylla was not frightened

CRIMINAL LAW

14

psnboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 29 is based on the following fact situation.

Becky Beeman was shopping at Von's supermarket
one morning. After paying for her groceries, she
exited the store and walked to her car in the parking
lot. Gibby Gelson, a homeless vagabond, was loiter-
ing in the parking area and observed Becky. Becky
opened the back door of the vehicle and placed two
grocery bags on the back seat. She then took her
pocketbook and laid it on the floor of the back seat.
After shutting the back door, Becky opened the dri-
ver's door and hopped into the car.

As Becky turned on the ignition and was about to
drive off, Gibby ran to the car and opened the door
to the back seat. He then reached into the vehicle
and grabbed her pocketbook and groceries. Gibby
startled Becky causing her to lose control of the
vehicle which crashed into a tree. Moments later,
Gibby was apprehended by a security guard and
eventually placed under arrest.

29. At common law, Gibby should be found

guilty of:

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

larceny
larceny and assault
robbery
robbery and reckless endangerment

Marshall and Tucker were longtime friends who
had served in Vietnam together. Marshall was
despondent after experiencing a number of
personal tragedies. After getting laid off from his
job as a pizza deliveryman, Marshall's wife, Flo,
divorced him. Following the divorce, Marshall's
home was destroyed by a tornado and all his
personal belongings were destroyed. To make
matters even worse, Marshall lost his life savings
when he purchased stock in a west Texas oil
company that went bankrupt.

Knowing that Marshall was extremely disconsolate,
Tucker suggested that they get together and have a
few beers at a local watering hole. As they were
drinking, Marshall told Tucker that he was planning
to burglarize the home of his wealthy aunt, Juanita,
and steal her jewelry. Marshall asked Tucker if he
was interested in taking part in the burglary and
assisting him. When Tucker refused, Marshall said,
"O.K. chickenshit, I'm gonna commit the crime
myself, but I have a proposition for you. If you let
me stash the jewels at your house until the heat's
off, I'll give you her diamond necklace." Tucker
agreed.

Two nights later, while Juanita was away on vaca-
tion, Marshall broke into his aunt's home and stole
her jewelry which was worth over $100,000.
Afterwards, Marshall went to Tucker's house.
Tucker permitted him to come inside and told
Marshall he could leave the jewels in the attic. The
next day, Tucker had second thoughts about his
criminal involvement. He immediately called the
police who came to his home and recovered all of
the stolen jewels. Upon questioning, Tucker told the
police that Marshall committed the burglary. The
police subsequently arrested Marshall and Tucker.

28. Tucker should be found guilty for which of

the following crimes?

(A) Receiving of stolen property only
(B) Receiving of stolen property and acces-

sory after the fact to burglary

(C) Receiving of stolen property and con-

spiracy to commit burglary

(D) Receiving of stolen property, conspiracy
to commit burglary and burglary

pmebte

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 30 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 31 is based on the following fact situation.

Customer went to a local Wal-Smart store to buy
some suntan oil which she expected to use on her
vacation the following week in Florida. She found
the brand she wanted, and decided to browse
around. As she walked down the next aisle, she saw
an expensive camera she really liked, but could not
afford to pay for it. She picked up the camera,
examined it, and decided to steal it. She put the
camera underneath her sweater, but noticed an
employee watching her from the back of the store.
Because she feared getting arrested for shoplifting,
she quickly removed the camera from her sweater
and put it back on the shelf, and left the store. She
had put the suntan oil in her pocket and inadver-
tently forgot to pay for it. When she got home, she
realized her mistake and decided to return to the
store and pay for the suntan oil.

Johnson took a diamond ring to a pawnshop and
borrowed $20 on it. It was agreed that the loan was
to be repaid within 60 days and if it was not, the
pawnshop owner, Defendant, could sell the ring. A
week before expiration of the 60 days, Defendant
had an opportunity to sell the ring to a customer for
$125. He did so, thinking it unlikely that Johnson
would repay the loan and if he did, Defendant
would be able to handle him somehow, even by
paying him for the ring if necessary. Two days later,
Johnson came in with the money to reclaim his
ring. Defendant told him that it had been stolen
when his shop was burglarized one night and that,
therefore, he was not responsible for the loss.

Larceny, embezzlement, and false pretenses are
separate crimes in the jurisdiction.

30. Based on these facts, Customer may be guilty
of which, if any, of the following crimes?

31. It is most likely that Defendant has committed

which of the following crimes?

(A) Theft of the suntan oil only.
(B) Theft of the camera but not theft of the

suntan oil.

(C) Attempted theft of the camera and no

theft of the suntan oil.
(D) No theft or attempted theft.

larceny
embezzlement
larceny by trick

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D) obtaining property by false pretenses

CRIMINAL LAW

16

pmsbr

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 32 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

Rufus worked as a deliveryman for the Rolling
Rock Brewery in Latrobe. On Christmas Eve,
Rufus was loading his truck at the brewery when
he decided to take a case of beer home for the holi-
days. He unloaded a case of beer off his truck and
hid it underneath the loading dock. Rufus planned
to return after work and put the case in his car.
Rufus then went out on his delivery route and came
back to the brewery at 4:30 p.m. At that time, he
had a change of heart and returned the beer that he
had hidden to the warehouse stock room.

32. Rufus has committed

(A) no crime
attempted larceny
(B)
larceny
(C)
(D) embezzlement

Question 33 is based on the following fact situa-
tion.

Williams bet Perry $200 that the Miami Dolphins
would beat the San Francisco 49ers in the Super
Bowl game. After losing, Williams refused to pay
Perry. One week later, Perry went to Williams'
home to collect the debt. It was 11:00 p.m. when
Perry arrived at Williams' home. He knocked at the
front door but nobody responded. Perry then
opened the door, which was unlocked, and entered
the living room. He heard Williams in an upstairs
bedroom. Angered by Williams' refusal to pay him
the $200, Perry grabbed a portable television set.
He carried it outside and then set it afire.

33. In a common law jurisdiction, Perry is

charged with the crimes of arson, burglary
and larceny. He should be found guilty of

arson only
(A)
(B) burglary only
larceny only
(C)
(D) arson and larceny

pssaiv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Rose, a compulsive gambler, owed a large amount
of money to Shiller, who ran an illegal bookmaking
operation. When Rose was unable to pay his gam-
bling debt, Shiller hired Enzo, a mob enforcer, to
threaten Rose. Late one evening Enzo went to
Rose's home and rang the doorbell. When Rose
opened the door, Enzo pushed him aside and
entered the home. Enzo then slapped Rose's face
and said, "You better pay Shiller his money...or I'll
be back and break your legs." As Enzo was leaving,
he saw Rose's Rolex watch lying on a table in the
hallway. Enzo took the watch and left.

34. In addition to the crime of battery, what other

crimes is Enzo guilty of?

Conspiracy to commit assault
Burglary -
Larceny
Robbery

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

17

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation. 	

Question 36 is based on the following fact situation.

35, In which of the following situations is D most
likely guilty of the offense of false pretenses?

(A) D falsely tells a Texas car salesman he is
interested in buying a new car and
receives permission to drive it for a
short trip. D drives the car to California
and does not return it.

(B) D falsely represents to Victim that he is
a friend of Victim's boss, that he is
employed by a local company, and that
he has just lost his wallet. D obtains a
loan of $100 from Victim and falsely
promises to repay the loan the next day.
(C) D rents a Harley-Davidson motorcycle
from Dealer for one day. Later that day,
Stranger asks D how much he will sell
the motorcycle for. D sells the motorcy-
cle to Stranger for $1,000. D falsely
informs Dealer the motorcycle was
stolen.

(D) D fills the gas tank to his car at a self-
service station, and drives off without
paying.

Blake Boozman worked as a stockbroker at the San
Francisco Stock Exchange. To supplement his
income, Blake also sold recreational drugs to
friends and business acquaintances. One evening
Blake was at a party in Berkeley and offered to sell
an ounce of marijuana to Yosi Yumagato. Unknown
to Blake, Yosi was an undercover police officer.
Yosi agreed to purchase the marijuana and gave
Blake $200. In return Blake handed Yosi a bag con-
taining what appeared to be marijuana. Yosi then
arrested Blake. At the stationhouse the police tested
the substance and determined that it was not mari-
juana but oregano. At the time of the transaction
Blake knew that the bag did not contain marijuana.

36. At common law Blake is guilty for which, if

any, of the following crimes?

Solicitation

I.
II. Attempted Sale of Narcotics
III. False Pretenses

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I and II
II and III
III only
I, II and III

CRIMINAL LAW

18

potabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 37 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 38 is based on the following fact situation.

Emily and Emerson had been married for two
years. Early in the marriage Emily learned she was
infertile and could not have children. Desperately
wanting to have children, Emily asked her sister
Millie, if she would act as a surrogate mother.
Millie, who was single, was very close to Emily
and agreed to do so.

Emily and Millie entered into the following
arrangement. Emily promised to pay Millie $7,000
to act as a surrogate mother. The money was to be
paid following the birth. In return, Millie agreed to
be implanted with Emily's embryo and carry the
baby to term.

During the seventh month of the pregnancy, Millie
changed her mind and decided to keep the child
herself. Millie moved out of state and gave birth to
the baby which she refuses to turn over to Emily.

37. Millie is guilty of

embezzlement

(A) no crime
(B)
(C) kidnapping
(D)

false pretenses

A statute in State Red reads in relevant part; "Any
person over the age of eighteen who knowingly
engages in sexual intercourse with a person under
the age of sixteen is guilty of statutory rape."
Doofus attended a convention for librarians in the
city of Lost Virtues in State Red. He and several
other librarians visited the Pussy Kat Club, which
featured "exotic dancers." After performing her act
on stage, exotic dancer Bunny sat down at Doofus'
table and asked him, "Will you buy me a drink,
honey?" Doofus bought Bunny several glasses of
champagne at $15 a glass, and arranged to meet her
at a nearby motel, The Love Nest, after closing
time. Bunny met Doofus at the motel and they
engaged in sexual intercourse. Following their love-
making, Bunny asked Doofus for $200, but Doofus
responded, "This was for love; I'm not going to
ruin this beautiful experience by involving money
in it." Bunny responded, "I think I'll call the police
because I'm only 15 years old." Although Bunny
was mature in appearance, she was one month shy
of her sixteenth birthday when she engaged in inter-
course with Doofus. The police arrested Doofus
and asked him whether he had asked Bunny how
old she was. Doofus replied, "Golly, no, officer.
She's a stripper!" Doofus was charged with statu-
tory rape.

At Doofus' trial, the judge gave the following jury
instruction, over objections by the defense: "If
you find that the defendant engaged in sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix (Ms. Bunny), there
is a presumption that the defendant was aware of
her age."

38. Was the jury instruction proper?

(A) Yes, because statutory rape is a strict lia-

bility offense.

(B) Yes, because Doofus had a duty, under

these circumstances, to inquire as to
Bunny's age.

(C) No, because Doofus did not know that

she was underage.

(D) No, because the jury instruction shifted
the burden of proof on an element of the
crime to Doofus.

pmebv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 39 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 40 is based on the following fact situation.

Defendant sold heroin to Morgan. Morgan was later
stopped by police for speeding. The police searched
Morgan's car and found the heroin concealed under
the rear seat. Defendant is charged with illegally
selling heroin.

40. Defendant's motion to prevent introduction of
the heroin into evidence will most probably be

(A) granted, because the heroin was not in

plain view

(B) granted, because the scope of the search

was excessive

(C) denied, because Defendant has no stand-

ing to object to the search

(D) denied, because the search was proper as

incident to a valid full custodial arrest

Snoop "Piggy" Pigpen was the lead singer for the
Deadheads, a popular Santa Cruz rock band.
Following a concert at the Palladium, Pigpen and a
few band members went outside to smoke a joint of
marijuana. While they were passing the joint back
and forth, their actions were being observed by
O'Leary, a police officer on duty. O'Leary
approached the group and arrested Pigpen. He was
subsequently charged with possession of marijuana,
a misdemeanor.

The maximum punishment for this misdemeanor
offense was seven months imprisonment and a $500
fine. Following his arrest, Pigpen, who was found
to be indigent, requested an attorney be appointed
to represent him as well as a jury trial. At his
arraignment the judge denied both his requests.
Pigpen was subsequently found guilty and received
a six month suspended sentence.

39. Pigpen appeals the judge's ruling denying him

an attorney and the right to a jury trial. The
appellate court will likely hold that the trial
judge's ruling was

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

correct with respect to the right to coun-
sel
correct with respect to the right to a jury
trial
correct with respect to the right to coun-
sel and the right to a jury trial
incorrect with respect to the right to
counsel and the right to a jury trial

CRIMINAL LAW

20

ponbs•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 41 is based on the following fact situation. 	

Question 42 is based on the following fact situation.

42. Which of the following government acts most
likely involves a "search" under the 4th
Amendment?

A 	

A drug-detection dog sniffs the exterior
of a lawfully stopped vehicle following a
traffic violation for speeding, and the
dog gives a positive alert for drugs out-
side the trunk.

. Police use a thermal image device to

scan the exterior of a suspect's house to
determine whether excessive heat is
being emitted where marijuana growers
use halide lamps to enhance growth.
1W Police suspect that D has been using his
telephone to sexually harass victims.
Police use a pen register to determine
the numbers dialed by the suspect.
yi. Police lawfully obtain suspicious white
powder from an airline employee and
conduct a chemical field test to deter-
mine the presence of cocaine.

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)

I & II only
II only
I, II, & III only
I, II, III and IV

Rowdy went to the White Castle Restaurant in
Elizabethtown for a late night snack. He ordered
two double cheeseburgers, a small portion of french
fries and a large Coke from Dot, the waitress. Dot
mixed up Rowdy's order with another customer's,
and by mistake brought him two fried fish sand-
wiches, an order of onion rings and a vanilla shake.
When Rowdy was handed the wrong order, he went
berserk. In an uncontrollable rage, he knocked over
the table and screamed unprintable obscenities at
Dot. Unknown to Rowdy, two police officers were
sitting at the counter and witnessed the entire inci-
dent. They immediately placed Rowdy under arrest
and charged him with disorderly conduct.

He was taken to the police station where he was
booked. Since it was late at night, Rowdy was told
that he would not be arraigned until the next morn-
ing. As part of standard operating procedure,
Rowdy's possessions were taken from him and
inventoried. While he was in custody,
Elizabethtown police detectives received a tip that
Rowdy was involved in an unsolved burglary.
Checking the inventory list, they noticed that a dia-
mond ring taken from Rowdy (when he was booked
on the disorderly conduct charge) was one of the
items taken in the burglary. Based on this evidence,
Rowdy was then charged with burglary.

41. At Rowdy's burglary trial, his lawyer moved
to exclude from evidence the diamond ring
and any testimony concerning where it was
found. This motion should be

granted, because there was no probable
cause to justify the inspection or to sus-
pect that Rowdy was involved in the
burglary
granted, because the police failed to ob-
tain a warrant before inspecting Rowdy's
possessions
denied, because the further examination
of Rowdy's lawfully inventoried posses-
sions was permissible
denied, because Rowdy had already
been subject to an arrest, he had no
standing to object to the intrusion of
such an inspection

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 43 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

Agnes has an 11 year-old daughter, Avis. Agnes is
legally separated from her husband, Hubie, and has
filed for divorce. One night Agnes went out to din-
ner and left Avis at home. Upon leaving the house,
Agnes locked the door to her bedroom. Agnes and
Hubie own the home in joint tenancy.

While Agnes was gone, Avis found a spare key to
her mother's bedroom and opened the door. While
rummaging through her mother's dresser, Avis
found a bag containing white powder. Concerned
that the bag might contain drugs, Avis called her
father, Hubie, to ask his advice. Hubie instructed
her to call the police. Avis then telephoned the
police station and reported what she had found. A
patrol car was immediately dispatched to her home.

Avis allowed the police to come inside and led
them to her mother's bedroom. She gave the offi-
cers the bag which they took to the stationhouse for
a lab test. After the results confirmed that the bag
contained cocaine. Agnes was arrested and charged
with illegal possession of a controlled dangerous
substance.

44. Agnes' attorney has filed a motion to prevent
the cocaine from being admitted into evi-
dence. The motion should be

denied, because Avis, as daughter, and
Hubie, as co-owner, had the authority to
allow the police inside the home and to
make the seizure
denied, because Avis lived with her
mother, she had equal control over the
premises
granted, because Avis, as a minor did not
have apparent authority to permit the
police to enter the home
granted, because Avis did not have
apparent authority to permit the police
to enter Agnes' bedroom

Dumpor owned a forty acre tract of farmland
located in a rural section of northeastern Kansas.
He conducted a small farming operation on the
property and grew corn, broccoli, and other vegeta-
bles which he sold to local produce companies.
One day, the county police received an anonymous
tip that Dumpor was growing marijuana on his
farm. Acting on this information, the police flew
over his farm in a surveillance plane and took
pictures of the landscape using a special camera
with a telescopic lens.

After the pictures were developed, they revealed
what appeared to be marijuana plants growing
alongside a section of the corn crop. In an
unmarked vehicle, two undercover police officers
then drove to Dumpor's farm. They climbed over a
chain-linked fence and walked around the farm.
While surveying the terrain, they came upon a
small marijuana patch. The officers then noticed
fresh footprints that led from the marijuana patch to
a nearby cabin.

Believing that marijuana was being stored in the
cabin, the police officers decided to immediately
secure a search warrant. After obtaining the war-
rant, they returned to Dumpor's farm and entered
the cabin. Inside the cabin, the police found a large
cache of marijuana that had been recently har-
vested. Dumpor was then arrested and charged with
unlawful possession of marijuana.

43. Dumpor files a pretrial motion to suppress the

marijuana as evidence on grounds of an ille-
gal search and seizure. The motion should be

denied, because the officers secured a
warrant before entering the cabin,
despite the fact that their earlier actions
may have been unlawful
denied, because the warrant was validly
issued and based upon information law-
fully obtained
granted, because the marijuana was the
fruit of an illegal search and seizure
since the police did not have probable
cause to conduct overflight surveillance
granted, because the police were unlaw-
fully on Dumpor's property when the
marijuana patch was initially discovered

CRIMINAL LAW

22

piMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 45 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 46 is based on the following fact situation.

Marissa was driving home late at night after attend-
ing a party. O'Reilly, a patrol officer, witnessed her
driving five miles over the posted speed limit. After
making a traffic stop, O'Reilly proceeded to do a
computer check to determine if there were any
outstanding warrants for Marissa. The dispatcher at
the police station told O'Reilly that there were two
outstanding warrants for nonpayment of traffic
tickets. As a result, Marissa was placed under
arrest. She was then handcuffed and placed in the
back seat of the patrol car.

O'Reilly then walked back to her car and
proceeded to search the interior. The officer then
noticed a plastic bag containing marijuana lying
under the front seat of the vehicle. Thereafter,
Marissa was charged with illegal possession of a
controlled dangerous substance.

45. Prior to trial Marissa's attorney filed a motion
to suppress introduction of the marijuana into
evidence. The motion should be

(A) denied, because a law enforcement offi-

cer may lawfully search the passenger
compartment of a car incident to a valid
traffic stop

(B) denied, because the search was incident

(C)

to a lawful arrest
granted, because the police did not have
probable cause to search the car
(D) granted, because the search violated

Marissa's Fourth Amendment protection
against unreasonable search and seizure

At about 2:00 p.m. a reliable police informant tele-
phoned the police and reported seeing two men in
a red van selling narcotics outside a local high
school. The informant gave a detailed description of
the two men and the license number of the vehicle.
A patrol car was immediately dispatched to the
high school location. A few minutes later, the
police saw a van matching the description parked
about two blocks from the high school location.
When the police approached, they saw one man
fitting the description as provided and also saw a
woman in the back seat of the van. Then they saw
the woman leave the van and walk across the street
to a bus stop.

The police proceeded to the van and opened the
doors of the vehicle. The police then pried open a
locked toolcase that was situated in the rear of the
vehicle. Inside, the police found an envelope which
contained about one gram of cocaine. They then
placed the driver of the vehicle under arrest.
Immediately thereafter, the police opened the
glove compartment and found a small amount
of marijuana.

Thereupon, one of the officers walked across the
street to where the woman (who was seen leaving
the van) was standing. The officer went ahead and
took her purse and looked inside. There he found a
packet containing a gram of cocaine. The woman
was then placed under arrest and charged with pos-
session of a controlled dangerous substance.

46. The driver of the van was subsequently prose-
cuted and charged with two counts of posses-
sion of controlled dangerous substances. He
filed a motion to exclude the cocaine and
marijuana from evidence. His motion will
most likely be granted with respect to

the cocaine only
the marijuana only

(A)
(B)
(C) both the cocaine and the marijuana
(D) neither the cocaine nor the marijuana

ponbs•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23

CRIMINAL LAW

Question 47 is based on the following fact situation.

Mike Maier was an unemployed father who had
three young children. His oldest son, Jeffrey,
wanted to play little league baseball but didn't own
a glove. Mike went to Tarasco's Sporting Goods
Store in Queens and stole a black outfielder's glove
for his son. As Mike was leaving the store, a clerk
saw the glove bulging under Maier's jacket. The
clerk ran outside and yelled to a nearby police offi-
cer, "Stop that man, he just stole a baseball glove."
The police officer proceeded to detain Maier. At the
time he was being detained, Maier did not respond
to the clerk's accusation. Thereafter Maier was
taken to the police station and charged with larceny.
At the stationhouse, he was given his Miranda
warnings for the first time.

At trial, Maier took the stand and testified on his
own behalf and denied committing the crime.
During final arguments, the prosecuting attorney
posed the question that if the defendant was inno-
cent, why did he remain silent and not deny culpa-
bility at the time of his detention. Defendant's
attorney objected to the prosecutor's comment.

47. The trial court judge will in all likelihood rule

that the prosecutor's comment was

(A)

(B)

improper, because it violates defendant's
Miranda protection
improper, because the defendant has the
right to remain silent

(C) proper, because no Miranda warnings

were given when Maier was detained by
the police

(D) proper, because the prosecuting attorney
did not misstate the evidence or express
his personal opinion as to the truth of
the evidence

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

48. Under which of the following fact situations
would Defendant's Miranda waiver most
likely be ineffective?

(A) Defendant recently graduated from

Georgetown Law Center. At her gradua-
tion party, Defendant became highly
intoxicated after drinking a pint
of whiskey. Following the party,

CRIMINAL LAW

24

Defendant attempted to drive home in
her automobile. She fell asleep at the
wheel and crashed into another vehicle,
injuring the driver. Shortly after the
accident, a police officer came on the
scene and arrested Defendant, charging
her with D.U.I. The Defendant was then
given her Miranda warnings and trans-
ported to the police station. Upon ques-
tioning, Defendant, who was still highly
intoxicated, waived her Miranda rights
and made an incriminating statement.

(B) Defendant stabbed victim after a violent
argument. Following the victim's death,
the police arrested Defendant and
charged him with murder. He was trans-
ported to the stationhouse where
Miranda warnings were given.
Afterwards the Defendant was interro-
gated and proceeded to waive his
Miranda rights. He then confessed to
committing the crime. At trial, a psychi-
atrist testified that Defendant was men-
tally ill and his confession was not the
result of a knowing and intelligent waiver.

(C) Defendant was a 15-year-old boy who
was a high school sophomore. He pos-
sessed normal intelligence and experi-
ence for a youth of his age. One night he
and two friends attended a concert in
Central Park. After the concert, Defendant
and his friends went on a "wilding"
spree assaulting and robbing a number
of victims in the park. The next day
Defendant was arrested and received
proper Miranda warnings. After being
subjected to persistent questioning for
two hours, Defendant waived his
Miranda rights and made a confession.
At trial, Defendant claims that he did not
make a knowing and intelligent waiver.

(D) Defendant was a 16-year-old juvenile

who was in police custody on suspicion
of murder. He was given his Miranda
warnings and then requested to have his
probation officer present. He had been
on probation for a series of juvenile
offenses. His request was denied. During
a brief interrogation, Defendant pro-
ceeded to waive his Miranda rights and
made incriminating statements that
linked him with the crime. At trial,
Defendant's lawyer claims that his
waiver was ineffective because his
request to see the probation officer was
the equivalent of asking for a lawyer.

pinbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST


Question 49 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 50 is based on the following fact situation.

Dave was arrested on a charge of receiving stolen
property. After being properly advised of his
Miranda rights, Dave invoked his right to remain
silent and requested to see his attorney. Several
days later, Dave was arraigned and placed in a cell
with Innis. Unknown to Dave, Innis was a police
informant who had been assigned to Dave's cell
with specific instructions to listen to Dave in order
to obtain information about Dave's crime. Innis
was expressly told not to ask any questions about
the crime, but to "act normal" and "be yourself."
While in the cell together, Innis boasted about the
number of crimes he had committed without being
caught. Not to be outdone, Dave responds with
several statements implicating himself in a large
stolen property enterprise. When Dave is brought
to trial, the prosecution seeks to put Innis on the
stand to testify regarding his jail cell conversations
with Dave.

49. The trial court should rule that this testimony

is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

inadmissible, because it is violative of
Dave's rights against self-incrimination
inadmissible, because it is violative of
Dave's right to counsel
admissible, because Dave had been
given proper Miranda warnings
admissible, because there was no inter-
rogation

The state of Marlboro has recently enacted the fol-
lowing anti-smoking statute:

"It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to
smoke a cigarette, cigar or pipe in any restau-
rant, bar, cafe or other establishment within
the state that serves food, beer, wine or
liquor. Whoever violates this ordinance shall
be fined not more than five hundred dollars,
or imprisoned not more than thirty days, or
both."

Nick O'Teen was tried in state court for violating
the anti-smoking statute. The prosecution's evi-
dence consisted of the testimony of Philip Morris,
a patron of Chesterfield's Bar and Grill, who was
disturbed by O'Teen's cigar smoking at the restau-
rant. At the close of all the evidence, O'Teen's
lawyer moved for a dismissal of the charge on the
ground that applying the statute to smoking at a
public restaurant would violate the defendant's
equal protection rights. The trial judge agreed and
granted the motion.

The state prosecutor appealed the ruling under a
statute that permitted prosecutorial appeals in such
circumstances. The state won the appeal, but the
prosecutor decided not to reprosecute O'Teen.
However, the city attorney in the city in which
Chesterfield's was located then sought to prosecute
O'Teen for the same incident under the city's anti-
smoking ordinance, which was identical to the state
statute. The city attorney planned to call as her only
witness Philip Morris, who testified at O'Teen's
first trial. O'Teen moved to dismiss on the ground
that the prosecution of the city charge would violate
his rights against double jeopardy.

50. The court should

(A) grant the motion, because jeopardy
attached in the first prosecution
(B) grant the motion, because the law and

the evidence will be identical at the sec-
ond trial

(C) deny the motion, because the city and
the state are separate sovereigns

(D) deny the motion, because the granting of
O'Teen's motion to dismiss was not a
judgment of acquittal since it did not
resolve any factual elements of the
statutory offense

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

25

CRIMINAL LAW

CRIMINAL LAW	

26

pmebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE
MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Evidence. Any species of proof, or probative nu
ly presented at the trial of an issue, by the act of
and through the medium of witnesses, records, (
exhibits, concrete objects, etc., for the purpose 4
belief in the minds of the court or jury as to th
tion. Taylor v. Howard, 111 R.1 527, 304 A.2d
Testimoney. writings, material objects, or 01
presented to the senses that are offered to pis(

PRACTICE
EXAMINATION

EVIDENCE  

IN THE BOXES PROVIDED BELOW, PRINT YOUR LAST NAME
SKIP A BOX, THEN PRINT YOUR FIRST NAME, SKIP A BOX,
THEN PRINT YOUR MIDDLE INITIAL. 

LAST NAME THEN FIRST NAME                                              

o     

MARK YOUR CHOICE OF AN ANSWER WITH A SINGLE, HEAVY, DARK LINE.
USE NO. 2 PENCIL ONLY. ERASE COMPLETELY ANY ANSWER YOU WISH TO CHANGE.

1	

2	

unuu nun noun uuuu uunu uuuu uuou uunu Hum nuuu

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD

10

9	

7	

8	

6	

5	

3	

4	

11	

12	

HOU noon nun nun um 110011 Hun non [au nuau

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD

20

19	

18	

17	

15	

14	

16	

13	

21	

nun	

ABCD	

23	

22	

uuun MU gal uunu uuuu aim uuuu nuuu uuuo

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD

30

27	

26	

24	

29	

28	

25	

31	

32	

unlit] nun um uunu um [10[11:1 OHO ME ME tillüll

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD

40

34	

39	

36	

33	

35	

38	

37	

41	

42	

unuu DINH] [on num] nun unuu Huai Hun  99[1[1 1101:19

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD	

ABCD

ABCD	

ABCD	

50

46	

44	

49	

43	

48	

45	

47	

Question 1 is based on the following fact situation. 	

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.

Pudge sued Dickens for personal injuries arising
from an automobile accident. Pudge claimed that
Dickens drove through a stop sign at an intersection
without first coming to a complete stop. Dickens
denied driving through the stop sign and contended
that he came to a full stop before entering the inter-
section. At trial, Pudge called Wagner to testify that
he witnessed the accident and that Dickens did not
stop at the stop sign.

On cross-examination, Wagner admits that he was
standing 200 feet away from the intersection when
he witnessed the accident. Defense counsel thus
claims that Wagner was too far away to accurately
see whether Dickens failed to stop at the stop sign.

3.	

Dickens' attorney moves to have the judge
strike Wagner's testimony based upon the fact
that Wagner did not accurately observe the
facts to which he has testified. In responding
to defendant's objection, the judge should
admit the testimony if she finds that

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

it is supported by a preponderance of the
evidence
it is supported by clear and convincing
evidence
there is sufficient evidence for the jury
to conclude that the witness has first-
hand knowledge
it is relevant to prove a fact in issue

1.	

Dryden is tried on a charge of driving while
intoxicated. When Dryden was booked at the
police station, a videotape was made that
showed him unsteady, abusive, and speaking
in a slurred manner. If the prosecutor lays a
foundation properly identifying the tape,
should the court admit it in evidence and
permit it to be shown to the jury?

(A) Yes, because it is an admission.
(B) Yes, because its probative value is not

substantially outweighed by unfair prej-
udice.

(C) No, because the privilege against self-

incrimination is applicable.

(D) No, because specific instances of con-
duct cannot be proved by extrinsic evi-
dence.

Question 2 is based on the following fact situation.

Kaufman was arrested and charged with robbery.
Upon being taken into custody, he was given his
Miranda rights and then taken to the police station
for booking. While at the stationhouse, Kaufman
told the arresting officer, O'Toole, that he was
prepared to make a confession. O'Toole then
turned on a video recorder and videotaped
Kaufman's confession.

2.	

At trial, the prosecution called O'Toole to
testify to the incriminating statements that
Kaufman made in his confession. Upon
objection by Kaufman's attorney, O'Toole's
proposed testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

inadmissible, because the videotape is
the best evidence of Kaufman's
confession
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception
admissible, because O'Toole had first-
hand knowledge of the confession
admissible, because Kaufman was given
his Miranda rights before eliciting the
confession

pirsabzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

EVIDENCE

(D) Decker is being prosecuted for bigamy
resulting from a common law marriage
to Grace, followed by a ceremonial mar-
riage to Rebecca. Decker contends that
he was never married to Grace. At trial,
the prosecution calls Rebecca as a wit-
ness. She refuses to testify invoking a
statute that excuses a "spouse" from
being called in a criminal proceeding to
testify against a marital partner. Under
such a statute, Rebecca would not be
considered a spouse if Decker already
was married to Grace when he pur-
ported to marry Rebecca. In order to
determine whether Rebecca may invoke
such a statute, the issue which must ulti-
mately be decided is whether Decker
was married to Grace. Who decides this
factual question?

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

4.	

Under which of the following situations does
the jury, not the judge, make the final deter-
mination of the factual question in issue?

(A) Weaver is on trial for the murder of

Poole. During the trial, Jasper proposes
to testify that moments before Poole
died, he came upon the victim, who had
been severely beaten and covered with
blood, and that Poole told him. "Weaver
stabbed me." Before admitting Jasper's
testimony, a question arises as to
whether Poole was under a sense of
impending death when he made his
statement. Who decides the factual ques-
tion?

(B) Blair was employed as a truck driver for
Shell Oil Company. On his way to make
a delivery, he drove through a red light
and crashed into Plank's car. Plank sued
Shell to recover damages for injuries
suffered in the collision. At trial, Plank
proposes to testify that immediately
after the accident, Blair said, "I was
lighting my cigarette and didn't see the
red light." Before admitting Plank's tes-
timony, a question arises as to whether
Blair was under the necessary state of
excitement in order for his statement to
qualify as an excited utterance. Who
decides this factual question?
(C) Palmer was injured when his car was

struck by a train at a railroad crossing.
Two days after the accident the engineer
was interviewed by a representative of
the state Public Utilities Commission.
Following the interview, the engineer
signed a statement concerning his ver-
sion of the accident. Thereafter, Palmer
brought suit against the railroad com-
pany to recover damages. The engineer
died before trial, and his statement is
now offered into evidence. Before
admitting the statement, a question
arises as to whether the railroad com-
pany obtained such statement in the reg-
ular course of business. Who decides
this factual question?

EVIDENCE

2

pinata

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

Knepper, London, Minkoff and Odom worked
together as computer programmers for Texas
Instruments. One afternoon they drove together in
Minkoff's car to see a Houston Astros baseball
game at the Astrodome. On their way to the sta-
dium, Minkoff was involved in an auto accident
with a vehicle driven by Ashby. Knepper was seri-
ously injured in the collision when his head went
through the front windshield. Knepper sued
Minkoff for personal injuries, claiming that
Minkoff was negligent in his operation of the motor
vehicle. In his pleadings, Minkoff alleged that
Knepper was contributorily negligent by failing to
wear his seat belt.

At trial, Minkoff called London and Odom to tes-
tify that Knepper was not wearing his seat belt at
the time of the accident. In defense, Knepper calls
Ryan to testify that he has been riding to work with
Knepper for two years and that invariably he wears
his seat belt whenever they are in the car together.

5.	

Ryan's testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible as habit evidence that
Knepper was wearing his seat belt at the
time of the accident
admissible as habit evidence provided
that Knepper introduces corroborating
evidence
inadmissible, because London and
Odom were eyewitnesses to the incident
inadmissible, because the probative
value of prior happenings is outweighed
by the time consumed, the confusion of
the issues and the possible misleading of
the jury

Jack Flash was a guitarist and lead singer for The
Stoners, a rock and roll band. While he was per-
forming a concert at the Altamont Convention
Center, an overhead strobe light fell on stage strik-
ing Jack. Jack suffered a fractured skull and was
hospitalized for an extended period of time.
Moonglow Visuals Inc. was hired by Altamont to
perform the strobe lighting show at the concert.

During his hospital stay, Jack sent a letter to Van
Morrison, Moonglow's president, threatening to
sue and holding Moonglow responsible for the
accident. After receiving Jack's letter, Moonglow's
attorney, Jethro Tull, visited Jack at the hospital
where he was being treated. Jethro entered Jack's
hospital room and told him, "Moonglow will pay
your medical expenses if you will give a release."
Jack remained silent and Jethro then left the room.

6.	

Thereafter Jack filed a lawsuit against
Moonglow to recover damages for his injury.
At trial, Jack seeks to introduce into evidence
Jethro's statement at the hospital. Upon
objection by Moonglow's attorney, Jethro's
statement should be

(A)
(B)

(C)
(D)

admitted, as a vicarious admission
admitted, as a declaration against
interest
excluded, as an offer to compromise
excluded, as a privileged attorney-client
communication

psnbe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

EVIDENCE

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 8 is based on the following fact situation.

Sammy Samuelson took his two children, Sonja and
Stu, to the Curtis School Fair. At the fair there were
many rides and amusements for the youngsters.
One of the highlights of the fair was a petting zoo
where children could feed baby goats, piglets and
little calves. The owner of the petting zoo was
Jethro Tull.

Children entering the petting zoo could purchase a
small package of carrots for $1 to feed the animals.
Both Sonja and Stu bought the carrots and were
walking around the zoo area feeding the animals.
Sonja approached a baby goat who began nibbling
on a carrot that she was holding. As the baby goat
was devouring the carrot, it suddenly bit Sonja's
hand causing a deep gash. Jethro, who witnessed
the incident, immediately ran to Sonja and said,
"I'm terribly sorry, I'll pay you $100."

7.	

Thereafter, Sammy, on behalf of his daughter,
sues Jethro to recover damages. During the
trial, Sammy attempts to introduce Jethro's
statement into evidence. Upon objection by
Jethro's attorney, the statement should be
ruled

(A)

(B)

(C)
(D)

admissible, as a present sense
impression
admissible, as a declaration against
interest
admissible, as an admission
inadmissible, as a settlement offer

Pitt sued Dow for damages for injuries that Pitt
incurred when a badly rotted limb fell from a curb-
side tree in front of Dow's home and hit Pitt. Dow
claimed that the tree was on city property and thus
was the responsibility of the city. At trial, Pitt
offered testimony that a week after the accident,
Dow had cut the tree down with a chainsaw.

8.	

The offered evidence is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

inadmissible, because there is a policy to
encourage safety precautions
inadmissible, because it is irrelevant to
the condition of the tree at the time of
the accident
admissible to show the tree was on
Dow's property
admissible to show the tree was in a rot-
ted condition

Question 9 is based on the following fact situation.

Brando was on trial for murder. Following a recess,
Brando was in the hallway outside the courtroom
speaking with his attorney. During their conversa-
tion, Brando said, "So what if  I killed him, big
deal." Brando's statement was overheard by the
presiding judge as he was walking down the corri-
dor to the restroom. The judge then informed the
prosecuting attorney of Brando's comment. After
trial is reconvened, the prosecutor calls the judge as
a witness to testify to what he heard the defendant
tell his attorney.

9.	

Upon objection by defendant's attorney, may
the judge be called as a witness?

(A) No, because Brando's statement was a
confidential communication and pro-
tected under the attorney-client privi-
lege.

(B) No, because a judge may not testify in a
matter over which he or she is presiding.

(C) Yes, because a judge has a duty to dis-

close incriminating evidence to the pros-
ecution.

(D) Yes, because Brando's statement was not

a confidential communication.

EVIDENCE

4

postbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST



Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Chester, a mushroom farmer, sued Wawa, a super-
market owner, for breach of contract. Chester called
Kennett to testify that the plaintiff produced and
shipped the mushrooms to Wawa as requested. On
cross-examination, Wawa's attorney asked Kennett
the following question, "Would you please tell the
court the date that Chester shipped the mushrooms
to Wawa?" Kennett responded,  "I have known
Chester since we both began volunteering at a local
homeless shelter and he has always produced the
finest mushrooms in the area." Wawa's attorney
objects and moves to strike Kennett's answer.

Wapner, a former federal court judge, was prose-
cuted for bribery after allegedly accepting $100,000
to rule favorably on behalf of a corporate defendant
in an anti-trust case. According to the prosecution,
Judge Wapner was approached by defendant's
agent who offered him the bribe if he would
dismiss the action. The judge agreed and accepted
the $100,000 which he then deposited in a secret
Swiss bank account. Thereafter, Judge Wapner
granted defendant's motion for a summary judg-
ment even though there was a genuine issue of
material fact necessitating trial.

10. The objection should be

11. At Wapner's criminal trial, the prosecution

(A)

(B)

(C)

sustained, because a party's credibility
cannot be bolstered until it has been
impeached
sustained, because Kennett's answer is
nonresponsive
sustained, because character evidence is
generally inadmissible in a breach of
contract action

(D) overruled, because a witness on cross-
examination must be given latitude to
answer questions

calls Loscutoff, a bailiff at the federal court-
house where the judge formerly presided, to
testify. Loscutoff proposes to testify that "it is
common knowledge at the courthouse that
Wapner was the best judge that money could
buy." Loscutoff's proffered testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because he had firsthand
knowledge of Wapner's reputation
admissible, because it is expert opinion
evidence
inadmissible, because it is not the proper
way to prove Wapner's character
inadmissible, because the prosecution
may not initially introduce evidence of
defendant's character

pink,*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

EVIDENCE

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation.

Dr. Iris, an opthalmologist, performed corneal laser
surgery on Hudson's right eye, which resulted in a
permanent loss of eyesight in that eye. Hudson sued
Dr. Iris for malpractice on the theory that the physi-
cian failed to warn her of the risk of losing her eye-
sight. Hudson based her case upon the theory that
had she been advised of such a risk, she would not
have consented to the operation. As a result,
Hudson contends that Dr. Iris lacked the "implied
consent" to perform such an operation.

On the other hand, Dr. Iris claims that she did in
fact warn Hudson that there was a risk of losing
eyesight from such an operation. At trial, Hudson
calls Peltz to testify that Dr. Iris performed a simi-
lar operation on him six months earlier. Peltz testi-
fies that although his operation was successful, Dr.
Iris did not warn him of any risk of losing eyesight.

12. Upon objection by Dr. Iris' attorney, Peltz's

proferred testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as evidence of Dr. Iris' rou-
tine practice
admissible, as evidence of Dr. Iris'
scheme, plan or design in failing to
warn patients of the risks of such
operations
inadmissible, because it is barred by the
physician-patient privilege
inadmissible, because a single incident
may not be used to show that a person
acted in that same way on another
occasion

Lavin was the varsity basketball coach of the boys
team at Westwood High School. After the second
game of the season, Lavin was suddenly dismissed
as the coach for undisclosed reasons. After the
dismissal was made public, the local newspaper
The Westwood Tribune ran an article discussing
Lavin's tenure as coach. The article, which was
written by the Tribune's sports editor, Bibby, stated
that "Lavin was a bad role model and morally unfit
for the coaching job."

13. Lavin brought suit against the newspaper for
defamation. At trial, Lavin called Wooden, a
player on the Westwood basketball team, to
testify that "Lavin was a good role model and
respected by the players." In presenting its
evidence, the newspaper called Jabber to tes-
tify. He proposes to testify that he saw Lavin
give beer to players on three occasions after
victories. Upon objection by Lavin's attorney,
Jabber's testimony is

(A)

(B)
(C)

(D)

admissible, for impeachment purposes
only
admissible, as substantive evidence
inadmissible, because specific instances
of conduct is an improper method of
proving character
inadmissible to prove character, but
admissible for the purpose of showing
intent or common scheme

EVIDENCE

6

piestbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Milligan is on trial for securities fraud. He takes the
stand to testify in his own behalf. On direct exami-
nation, Milligan's attorney proffers evidence of
Milligan's good character.

14. Upon objection by the prosecution, which of

the following statements is correct?

(A) Defendant may introduce evidence to

show truthfulness.

(B) Defendant may introduce evidence to

show honesty.

(C) Defendant may not introduce evidence
to show honesty because character evi-
dence is inadmissible.

(D) Defendant may not introduce evidence
of truthfulness unless it is inquired into
on cross-examination.

Vegas is on trial for criminal fraud. The defense
calls Reno as a "character witness". He testifies
that he has known Vegas for 11 years and that he
has a good reputation for honesty. After testifying
on direct, the prosecution does not cross-examine
Reno and he is excused from the courtroom.

During the rebuttal stage of trial, the prosecution
seeks to admit into evidence an investigative report
by the F.B.I. which contains the following state-
ment: "Reno was involved in two unlawful money
laundering operations."

15. The defendant's attorney objects to the admis-
sion of the F.B.I. report into evidence. The
report should be

excluded, because witness-Reno was not
questioned about the matter on cross-
examination and was excused after
testifying
excluded, because the report constitutes
an improper method of impeachment by
attempting to prove specific instances of
conduct by extrinsic evidence
admitted, because the veracity of a wit-
ness may be attacked by introducing evi-
dence of prior bad acts that bear directly
on dishonesty or untruthfulness
admitted, because the defendant "opened
the door" by calling Reno as a character
witness

pin1w

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

EVIDENCE

Question 16 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 17 is based on the following fact situation.

Dodge is on trial for robbery. Dodge's attorney
plans to call Wiggins as a witness. Nine years ear-
lier, Wiggins had been convicted of misdemeanor
battery. The defendant's attorney has filed a motion
disallowing the prosecution from questioning
Wiggins regarding this prior conviction.

17. The motion will likely be

(A) granted, as a matter of right
(B) granted, if the prejudice to the defendant
substantially outweighs the probative
value of admitting Wiggin's conviction
(C) denied, because the credibility of a wit-
ness may be attacked by any party

(D) denied, because a period of less than

10 years has elapsed since the date of
conviction

Jasper is suing Kashanian Oriental Rug Gallery for
breach of warranty regarding the sale of an expen-
sive Persian rug. Garfield accompanied Jasper at
the time she purchased the rug and heard Arlis, the
salesperson, tell Jasper that the rug was a unique
17th century hand-woven Persian carpet that was
"one of a kind".

At trial, however, Garfield surprised Jasper and tes-
tified that no such representations were ever made.
Garfield and Jasper had been best friends for many
years, but recently (after the purchase of the rug)
they had a bitter argument. The women had a
falling-out after Garfield accused Jasper of having
an adulterous affair with Garfield's husband.
Jasper's attorney now wishes to question Garfield
about her argument with Jasper in order to show
that it has caused her to change her testimony.

16. Defendant's attorney objects to this line of

questioning. The trial court judge should rule
the questioning

(A)

(B)

(C)
(D)

admissible, but allow no extrinsic evi-
dence if Garfield denies the accusation
admissible, and allow extrinsic evidence
if Garfield denies the accusation
inadmissible, as irrelevant
inadmissible, because the argument
between Jasper and Garfield involves a
collateral matter

EVIDENCE

8

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST


Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation.

Hemlock, a resident of Minneapolis, went to Ixtapa,
a Mexican resort, for a two-week Christmas vaca-
tion. While in Mexico Hemlock purchased many
artifacts and little trinkets which he took back on
the airplane. After arriving in Minneapolis, a cus-
toms officer at the airport discovered a small
amount of heroin in an Aztec sculpture that
Hemlock was bringing back from Mexico. He was
immediately arrested and prosecuted for illegal
possession and importation of a controlled danger-
ous substance. During his trial Hemlock testified
that he was unaware that the sculpture contained
any drugs. He further testified that he was not the
owner of the artifact but was merely delivering it as
a favor for an art dealer whose acquaintance he
made while in Ixtapa. The prosecuting attorney then
called Whelan to the stand. Whelan proposed to
testify that fourteen years earlier, Hemlock was
convicted of importing cocaine in a wood carving
from Guatemala, and served two years in prison.

18. Hemlock's attorney objects to Whelan's testi-
mony. The trial court judge should rule
Whelan's testimony

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as evidence of Hemlock's
common scheme or plan to smuggle
drugs
admissible, to rebut Hemlock's claimed
ignorance of the drug's presence
inadmissible, because the prosecuting
attorney cannot offer evidence of defen-
dant's bad character
inadmissible, because the conviction was
more than ten years old

Sadie Sadler was driving home after attending the
opening night performance of the musical Cats at the
Shubert Theatre. Sadie was turning her automobile
into her driveway at about 11:00 p.m. when she
stopped to light a cigarette. It was a dark and rainy
evening and Sadie didn't realize that the rear of her
car extended out into the south bound lane of
Palisades Road. As she was lighting her cigarette,
her car was struck by a vehicle driven by Morley
Morgan. The front bumper of Morley's car rammed
into the rear bumper of Sadie's car, causing it to
overturn. Sadie was seriously injured in the collision.

Sadie sued Morley to recover for the injuries she
suffered in the accident. At trial, Sadie called Nettie
Newman, a neighbor, to testify. Nettie testified that
she was outside walking her dog when the accident
occurred. She further testified that she saw
Morley's car "going at least seventy miles per hour"
when he crashed into Sadie. Nettie denied making
any contrary statements regarding the accident.

During Morley's case, Morley called Patrolman
Paye, the police officer who investigated the
accident, to testify. Paye testified that Nettie made
a statement to him that he (Paye) had passed on to
the other officer, who ultimately wrote up the
official police report. Thereupon, Paye identified
the police report, described how it was formulated
and kept, and said that he had signed the report
without reading it. He also testified that he had no
independent recollection of Nettie's statements
following the accident. In the report, Nettie is
quoted as saying that Morley was traveling at
twenty miles per hour.

19. If Morley offers the portion of the police

report into evidence to impeach Nettie, the
evidence will be

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as a business record to
impeach Nettie
admissible, as Paye's recorded recollec-
tion to prove the speed of Morley's
vehicle
inadmissible, because it is hearsay on
hearsay
inadmissible, because Paye did not ver-
ify that Nettie's statement was correctly
recorded before he signed the accident
report

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

EVIDENCE

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

Nathan Natelson was involved in an auto accident
as he was driving to work one morning. His car col-
lided with an automobile driven by Lisa Lobo. She
then sued Nathan for negligent operation of a motor
vehicle.

At trial, Lisa's attorney called Zoe Zooman to tes-
tify. Zoe is Nathan's State Farm Insurance represen-
tative. Zoe is prepared to testify that two weeks
after the accident, Nathan went to her office to dis-
cuss his automobile coverage. During their conver-
sation, Nathan asked her the following question:
"Can I lose my car insurance for driving recklessly?"

21. Upon proper objection by Nathan's attorney,
will Zoe be permitted to testify to Nathan's
inquiry?

(A) Yes, because it is an admission by a

party-opponent.

(B) Yes, because it is a declaration against

interest.

(C) No, because it is inadmissible hearsay
not within any recognized exception.

(D) No, because specific acts are not

admissible to prove a propensity for
negligence.

Blue, an independent taxi driver, took his car to
Aamco Transmissions to have the transmission
repaired. Owens, Aamco's employee, was working
on the transmission when the hydraulic lift broke.
This caused the car to plummet on top of Owens,
injuring him. Blue, who happened to be standing
nearby, saw the incident and rushed over to help
Owens. As Blue tried to free Owens from the metal
entanglement, the hydraulic pump (an apparatus
connected to the lift) suddenly burst, propelling a
sharp metallic fragment into Blue's stomach. Blue
received a deep laceration wound but was not other-
wise injured.

Blue then initiated suit against Aamco based on
negligent maintenance of the hydraulic lift. At trial,
Blue called the chief inspector for the state
Department of Occupation Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA), who testified about an
official report of the accident as prepared by an
OSHA investigator. Blue proposes to introduce a
segment of the report that quotes Owens' statement,
made to the OSHA investigator in an interview at
Aamco's shop, as to the cause of the accident.

20. Upon objection by Aamco's attorney, the trial

judge should rule the report

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as past recollection recorded
admissible, as a party admission incor-
porated in a public record
inadmissible, because such documents
must be offered in their entirety
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any exception

EVIDENCE

10

pmrsiose

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

Manley was arrested and charged with involuntary
manslaughter. The victim died after a head-on
collision with Manley's car. The prosecution
claimed that Manley fell asleep while operating
his vehicle and drove into oncoming traffic, killing
the victim. At trial, the prosecution called Lake to
testify. Lake testified that she was visiting Manley
on the morning of the accident and he told her,  "I
didn't get any sleep last night because of a terrible
migraine headache."

22. Manley's attorney objects to Lake's testimony.
The trial court should rule the testimony

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as nonhearsay
admissible, as a statement of declarant's
mental or physical condition
admissible, as a declaration against
interest
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
exception

John Yamato, a customer at the Fuji Fish Market,
was leaving the store after purchasing an assort-
ment of shrimp, oysters and scallops. He was
walking along the sidewalk in front of the store
when he slipped on a piece of eel. He brought suit
against Fuji, claiming he suffered leg and back
injuries. Fuji, although admitting that John was
injured by slipping on the eel, denied negligence
and claimed that John was contributorily negligent.

24. At trial, Fuji calls Anderson to testify that

before the fall he heard someone call out to
John, "Watch it, buddy, you're going to step
on that piece of fish". Anderson's testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because it is relevant as to
John's contributory negligence
admissible, as a statement of the declar-
ant's present state of mind
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
exception
inadmissible, because it was not a spon-
taneous utterance

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

Asher was arrested and charged with murdering
Zooman. Asher lived in Chicago. Zooman, who
resided in Peoria, was found shot to death in
Chicago. During Asher's murder trial, the prosecu-
tion called Zooman's wife, Zelda, to testify. She
proposed to testify that the day before Zooman was
killed, he told her, "I intend to go to Chicago
tomorrow and pay Asher the money  I owe him; oth-
erwise he has threatened to kill me."

23. Zelda's offered testimony is

(A)
(B)
(C)

(D)

admissible, to show victim's intent
admissible, as a verbal act
inadmissible, because the victim is not
subject to cross-examination
inadmissible, as hearsay because the vic-
tim's alleged statement is being offered
for its truth

posibp

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

EVIDENCE

Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Questions 26-27 are based on the following fact situation.

Carruth is on trial and charged with murdering
Nicolette, his former girlfriend. In its case-in-chief
the prosecution contends Carruth killed Nicolette
because he had gotten her pregnant and she refused
to have an abortion. Nicolette had been shot and
killed in the bedroom of her home.

Officer O'Brien, who was the first policeman to
arrive at the murder scene, discovered Nicolette's
body. While O'Brien was in the bedroom awaiting
the coroner, he saw Nicolette's open diary on her
desk. The diary, which was confiscated by the
police, was properly authenticated and handwritten
by Nicolette.

25. During Carruth's murder trial,. the prosecu-
tion calls Officer O'Brien to testify. He pro-
poses to testify that when he looked at her
open diary, he saw the following handwritten
passage: "Carruth threatened to kill me today
if I didn't agree to have an abortion." Upon
objection by Carruth's defense counsel,
Officer O'Brien's proposed testimony should
be ruled

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissable, because the diary was in
"plain view"
admissable, because he has firsthand
knowledge of the contents of the diary
inadmissable, because the best evidence
rule requires the diary to be produced
into evidence
inadmissable, because the passage in
the diary is hearsay not within any
recognized exception

In the city of Southfield, Morris Avenue is a four-
lane highway that runs north to south. In the center
of Southfield's business district, Morris Avenue
intersects with Kings Highway, a one-way street
for westbound traffic. Morris Avenue and Kings
Highway intersect at right angles with the
intersection controlled by a traffic signal.

One afternoon Dawn Doucette, a motorist, was
driving her car along Morris Avenue when she
struck Pasqual Pignatano, a bicyclist, who entered
the intersection from Kings Highway. Pignatano
was seriously injured in the accident and sued
Doucette to recover damages for personal injuries.
There were no witnesses to the accident. Doucette
claims that the traffic light was green at the time
she entered the intersection. Pignatano now has
amnesia and cannot remember how the accident
occurred.

26. At trial, Pignatano's attorney calls Toby

Templer to testify. Templer proposes to testify
that she was in the emergency room at the
hospital when Pignatano was brought in fol-
lowing the accident. Templer further testifies
that while Pignatano was being treated for his
injuries, the nurse asked him, "How did you
get hurt?" Pignatano replied, "The car ran the
red light and struck me as I was riding my
bike." Upon objection, this evidence is

admissible, as a statement made for
purposes of medical treatment and
diagnosis
admissible, as a present sense
impression
inadmissible, because Templer was
eavesdropping on a confidential commu-
nication between Pignatano and a hospi-
tal representative
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception

EVIDENCE

12

psnbze

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

27. Assume for the purposes of this question only
that Doucette is called to testify. Doucette
proposes to testify that the day after the acci-
dent she met with Officer Oquendo, the
police officer investigating the accident, and
told him that she (Doucette) drove through a
green light and Pignatano went through a red
light at the time of the accident. Upon objec-
tion by Pignatano's attorney, Doucette's pro-
posed testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because it is the statement
of the witness herself, who is subject to
cross-examination
admissible, as a statement based on
firsthand knowledge
inadmissible, because Pignatano's amne-
sia prevents him from contradicting
Doucette
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception

Question 28 is based on the following fact situation.

Dickerson is on trial and charged with the assault of
Robinson, a liquor store proprietor. The crime
allegedly occurred on October 10th at 10:00 P.M.
The only eyewitness to the assault was the victim.
Dickerson denied committing the crime and
claimed that he was in another city on that day. In
rebuttal, the prosecution seeks to introduce the tes-
timony of Police Officer White. She proposes to
testify that at approximately 10:05 P.M. on the
evening in question she stopped a person for speed-
ing about two blocks from the scene of the crime.
When she requested his driver's license the name
on the license was that of Byron Dickerson.
Furthermore, Officer White testifies that she
released the individual without issuing a ticket, but
forgot to return his driver's license which is now
being held at the police station.

28. Upon objection by Dickerson's attorney,
Officer White's testimony will be

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because the license is a gov-
ernmental record
admissible, because the identity of the
driver, not the contents of a writing, is at
issue
inadmissible, because the original writ-
ing rule requires the license to be pro-
duced into evidence
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception

pm:shy

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13

EVIDENCE

Question 29 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 30 is based on the following fact situation.

North was charged with violating the Bolin Act by
illegally selling armaments to Iraq without a gov-
ernment license. During the trial, North admitted
selling the weapons (which included missiles,
rocket launchers, bazookas and ammunition) to
agents of Saddam Hussein. In his defense, however,
North testified that he did not sell the armaments as
a private citizen, but rather he was working for the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). In rebutting
North's testimony, the government called Casey, a
high ranking CIA official, to the stand. He testified
that if North were in fact a CIA agent, that infor-
mation would ordinarily be contained in the CIA's
employment records. Asked whether North's
employment records were on file with the CIA,
Casey then testified, "I have searched the CIA
employment records diligently, but I haven't found
any documentation that Mr. North was employed by
the agency."

29. Upon objection by North's attorney, Casey's

testimony is

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because it shows the absence
of an entry in the record of a public
agency
admissible, because Casey had firsthand
knowledge of the information contained
in the CIA employment records
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception
inadmissible, because the CIA employ-
ment records are the best evidence to
substantiate whether North was actually
under the employ of the governmental
intelligence agency

On the morning of March 18th, a case of Lite beer
was stolen from a Budweiser truck as it was parked
outside of the Lone Star Cafe. Dangerfield was
subsequently charged with theft of the beer. At trial,
to prove that the beer was on the truck, Madden,
the Budweiser shipping manager, was called by the
prosecution to testify. Madden testified that he did
not have firsthand knowledge of the contents of the
truck on that particular day. Thereupon, the prose-
cuting attorney asked Madden the following ques-
tion, "Did you not receive a shipping invoice listing
the contents on the truck for that particular deliv-
ery?" Madden replied, "Yes, as part of my business
responsibilities, I did receive from the shipping
clerk a shipping invoice listing the merchandise on
the truck." Madden then produced the invoice and
identified it as the one in question.

30. If the prosecuting attorney offers the invoice

as an exhibit, the trial judge should

(A)

(B)

(C)

admit the invoice only because it is
recorded recollection
admit the invoice only because it is a
record of regularly conducted business
activity
admit the invoice because it would qual-
ify as both recorded recollection and a
record of regularly conducted business
activity

(D) exclude the invoice because it is hearsay
not within any recognized exception

EVIDENCE

14

ponbz•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 31 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 32 is based on the following fact situation.

Dr. Dee was a physician who specialized in cos-
metic surgery. He was highly skilled in breast
enlargement procedures and liposuction fat removal
techniques. For many years, Dr. Dee performed his
surgical operations on a cash only basis. The I.R.S.
subsequently audited Dr. Dee and found that he had
underpaid his taxes by failing to report his total
income over a six-year period.

Dr. Dee was then prosecuted for federal income tax
evasion by the I.R.S. At trial, the government
called Dr. Dee, as an adverse witness, to describe
his system of bookkeeping and to identify a docu-
ment that had been provided to the government by
an informer. Dr. Dee exercised his privilege against
self-incrimination and refused to identify the docu-
ment. The government then established by other
evidence that the document was in Dr. Dee's hand-
writing and appeared to be a ledger of cash receipts
that had not been reported on his income tax return.

31. The document is

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible as a business record
admissible as an admission by a
party-opponent
inadmissible as hearsay not within any
recognized exception
inadmissible because of Dr. Dee's privi-
lege against self-incrimination

Bell sued Davis for injuries suffered when her car
was sideswiped by a speeding red sports car which
had driven through a red light at the intersection of
Broad Street and Grand Avenue. The rate of speed
of the sports car and its color are in issue. Bell calls
Simpson as a witness. Simpson testifies that just
before the accident she was at home listening to a
broadcast on her police-band radio when the dis-
patcher said "Attention all cars, be on the lookout
for a red sports car heading south on Broad Street
at an excessive rate of speed." Simpson then said
she looked out her window in time to see a red
sports car leaving the scene of a collision with
Bell's car.

32. Upon objection by Davis' attorney, Simpson's
testimony relating to what she heard over the
police-band radio will most likely be

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, because she had firsthand
knowledge of the broadcast
admissible, as a statement of present
sense impression
inadmissible, under the best evidence
rule
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
recognized exception

posibir

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15

EVIDENCE

Question 33 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 34 is based on the following fact situation.

Quinella lived next-door to Electra. Late one night
Quinella overheard Electra scream, "Eddie, please
don't do it!" The next day, Electra was found dead
in her bedroom. Eddie was arrested and charged
with murdering Electra.

33. At trial, Quinella proposes to testify to
Electra's statement. Upon objection by
defendant's counsel, the court should rule
Quinella's testimony regarding Electra's
statement

admissible, as a dying declaration if the
jury determines that Electra believed
that her death was imminent
admissible, as a dying declaration if the
judge by a preponderance of the evi-
dence determines that Electra believed
that her death was imminent
inadmissible, because the probative
value is substantially outweighed by the
danger of unfair prejudice
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
recognized exception

Willard was married to Roxanne. Willard learned
that Roxanne was having an affair with Zack. In a
fit of anger, Willard stabbed Zack with a butcher's
knife. Although seriously injured by the stabbing,
Zack eventually recovered. Afterwards, Willard was
arrested and charged with attempted murder.

At trial, Zack testified about the stabbing but was
not asked about statements he made at the scene.
The prosecuting attorney then called Jay to testify.
Jay proposed to testify that moments after Zack was
stabbed, he arrived at the scene and heard Zack say,
"Willard stabbed me; I'm going to die."

34. Upon objection by Willard's attorney, Jay's
proposed testimony should be ruled

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as an excited utterance
admissible, as a statement made under
belief of impending death
inadmissible, because no foundation was
laid during the examination of Zack
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception

EVIDENCE

16

pissite

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 35 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 36 is based on the following fact situation.

Casey was on trial for bank robbery. He was
arrested based on information supplied by a police
informant and other circumstantial evidence.
However, a picture from the bank's video camera
appeared to show that Huggins was the perpetrator.
At trial, the defense called Huggins to testify. Upon
being questioned, Huggins invoked the Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination.
Thereupon, the defense called Tinker as a witness.
Tinker proposes to testify that Huggins told him
that he committed the bank robbery but later
retracted his confession.

36. Upon objection by the prosecution, Tinker's
proposed testimony should be ruled

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as an adoptive admission
admissible, as a statement against inter-
est
inadmissible, because Huggins retracted
the confession
inadmissible, because Huggins invoked
his Fifth Amendment privilege against
self-incrimination

Heidi witnessed a hit and run accident. She saw an
automobile run a red light and hit a pedestrian who
was crossing the street. After the accident, the car
sped off. Seeing the car leave the scene of the
accident, Heidi took out a matchbook from her
pocketbook and jotted down the license plate
number of the vehicle.

Ten minutes later, an ambulance and police arrived
at the scene. Heidi told Powell, the investigating
police officer, what occurred and handed her the
matchbook. Subsequently, Smelson was arrested
and charged with violating a state hit-and-run
statute. Smelson's license plate number matched
the one that Heidi scribbled on the matchbook.

35. Powell is called to testify at trial. The prose-

cuting attorney showed her the matchbook
which Heidi handed her at the scene of the
accident. After Powell verified the matchbook
and the license plate number, the prosecution
seeks to admit the matchbook entry into
evidence. Upon objection by defense counsel,
the evidence is

(A)

(B)
(C)

(D)

admissible, as a present sense impres-
sion
admissible, as past recollection recorded
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
recognized exception
inadmissible, unless Heidi is present at
trial and available for cross-examination

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

EVIDENCE

Question 37 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 38 is based on the following fact situation.

Pru, on a winter vacation trip to Vermont, visited
the Stowe Ski Resort. While she was ascending the
mountain on a ski lift (owned and operated by
Stowe), the overhead cable broke causing Pru to
fall from a height of fifteen feet to the ground.
Pru suffered a broken pelvis on account of the fall.
Thereafter, Pru sued Stowe alleging negligent
maintenance of the ski lift machinery.

Stowe took a discovery deposition of Vail, who was
seated behind Pru at the time of the accident. Vail
died shortly after the deposition. At trial, Pru offers
Vail's deposition in evidence.

37. Upon objection by Stowe's attorney, the depo-

sition is

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as former testimony
admissible, provided that Vail's state-
ments are more probative on the point
than any other evidence Pru can procure
through reasonable efforts and that Pru
has given Stowe reasonable notice that
she would offer the deposition
inadmissible, because it violates Stowe's
right to confront the unavailable witness
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception

Gersten Geiss, a native of Norway, emigrated to the
United States in 1918. Gersten eventually settled in
Topeka, Kansas where he married and raised a fam-
ily. For fifty years, Gersten ran a poultry business
in town. In 1964 Gersten took out a life insurance
policy with Prudential Insurance Company. Under
the terms of the policy, Gersten's wife, Genevieve,
was named as beneficiary. Gersten died in 2004.
When Genevieve filed a claim to recover the life
insurance proceeds, Prudential refused to disburse
the money claiming that Gersten had falsified his
birthdate on the insurance application.

38. Genevieve sued Prudential to recover the life
insurance proceeds. At trial the issue before
the court is Gersten's correct date of birth.
Which of the following offers of proof are
admissible?

I.

A family portrait painted in 1958 by an
artist named Warhol engraved with the
ages of the family members. Warhol
died in 1996.

II. A family Bible with Gersten's birthdate

inscribed on the cover.
A photocopy of Gersten's birth certifi-
cate from Norway.

IV. A sworn affidavit from Gersten's

brother, Geraldo, verifying Gersten's
birth date.

(A)
(B)

I and III
II and IV
I, II and III
I, II, III and IV

EVIDENCE

18

prnbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 39 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 40 is based on the following fact situation.

Post sued Dean for personal injury alleged to have
been caused by Dean's negligence. A major issue
at trial was whether Post's disability was caused
solely by trauma or by a preexisting condition
of osteoarthritis.

Post called Dr. Cox, who testified that the disability
was caused by trauma. On cross-examination, Dr.
Cox testified that a medical textbook entitled
Diseases of the Joints was authoritative and that
she agreed with the substance of passages from the
textbook that she was directed to look at, but that
the passages were inapplicable to Post's condition
because they dealt with rheumatoid arthritis rather
than with the osteoarthritis that Post was alleged
to have.

Dean then called his expert, Dr. Freed, who testi-
fied that, with reference to the issue being litigated,
there is no difference between the two kinds of
arthritis. Dean's counsel then asks permission to
read to the jury the textbook passages earlier shown
to Dr. Cox.

39. The judge should rule the reading of the

passages

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible for the purpose of impeach-
ing Cox
admissible as substantive evidence if the
judge determines that the passages are
relevant
admissible as substantive evidence and
for purposes of impeachment
inadmissible, because they are hearsay
not within any exception.

Oliver Oilman was arrested and charged with
murdering his wife, Olivia. During Oliver's trial,
the prosecution called Dr. Dorchester, a forensic
scientist, to testify that Oliver's deoxyribonucleic
acid (DNA) was present at the crime scene and on
the murder weapon. Dr. Dorchester testified that
the statistical probability based on DNA and
linking Oliver to the crime scene was one out of
12,300,000,000 people. Dr. Dorchester concluded
that it was statistically improbable that another
individual would have the same genetic match as
Oliver's. Dr. Dorchester further stated that he has
based his research on infor-mation contained in the
treatise entitled, The Science of DNA, written by
Barrister Sheck.

Oliver's attorney seeks to cross-examine Dr.
Dorchester regarding his testimony related to DNA.
During cross-examination, Oliver's attorney shows
Dr. Dorchester a photocopy of page 232 from
Sheck's book. Defense counsel then seeks to
question the expert about the information contained
on that page and to admit that page as an exhibit
into evidence.

40. Upon objection by the prosecution, the trial

court judge should rule

the photocopy may be admitted as
an exhibit and the witness may be
questioned about the document
the photocopy may not be admitted as
an exhibit but the witness may be
questioned about the document
the photocopy may be admitted as an
exhibit but the witness may not be
questioned about the document
the photocopy may neither be admitted
as an exhibit nor may the witness be
questioned about it since the original
book must be produced

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

19

EVIDENCE

Question 41 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 42 is based on the following fact situation.

On March 1, Reed and the Sanford School entered
into a written contract providing that Reed would
be employed for one year in various capacities (ath-
letic director, teacher, football coach) in return for
an annual salary of $37,750. Shortly thereafter and
prior to the July commencement date of employ-
ment, Sanford elected to terminate its varsity foot-
ball program. The school publicly attributed the
decision to economic factors. Upon hearing this
news Reed sought out Mr. Bentley, headmaster of
the school, to inquire as to the effect, if any, of this
decision on his salary and responsibilities.

In order to resolve the matter, Mr. Bentley arranged
a meeting among various school officials to discuss
Reed's situation. Afterwards, the school sent written
notice to Reed of its intent to terminate his employ-
ment contract. Reed then commenced suit to
recover the full balance of his salary calculated on
the basis of the March 1 contract. At trial, Mr.
Bentley was called to testify. On direct examination
he testified that six people (including himself)
attended the meeting where it was decided to termi-
nate Reed's employment contract. When asked to
identify the attendees, Mr. Bentley gave the names
of four but despite trying was unable to remember
the name of the fifth person.

41. The attorney who called Mr. Bentley to testify
now seeks to show him her handwritten notes
(that the attorney prepared during her pretrial
interview with Mr. Bentley) in which he pro-
vided all five names. The trial court is likely
to consider the showing of the notes taken as

Taylor was windsurfing in Catalina Bay when she
was struck by a motorboat operated by Collins.
Taylor, who was seriously injured in the accident,
sued Collins in a personal injury action. During the
course of the lawsuit, an important question of
consequence was the wind speed on the afternoon
Taylor was windsurfing.

At trial, Taylor calls Smithfield, an orthopedic
surgeon, to testify. Smithfield, who is an amateur
boating enthusiast, testified that he was navigating
his sailboat into Catalina Bay when Collins'
motorboat hit Taylor. Furthermore, Smithfield
testified that in the cockpit of his boat he maintains
a sophisticated electronic weathering device that
measures wind speed, temperature and barometric
pressure at periodic intervals. Taylor then offers
into evidence the computer printout from
Smithfield's weathering device measuring the wind
speed at the time of the accident.

42. Upon objection by Collins, the printout is

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

admissible, as past recollection recorded
admissible, as the record of regularly
conducted activity
inadmissible, because it is hearsay not
within any recognized exception
inadmissible, unless there is foundation
testimony as to the accuracy and good
working condition of Smithfield's elec-
tronic weathering device on the after-
noon in question

(A)

(B)

(C)

a proper attempt to refresh Mr. Bentley's
recollection
a proper attempt to introduce recorded
recollection
an improper attempt to support Mr.
Bentley's credibility

(D) an improper attempt to lead the witness

EVIDENCE

20

psisbie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 43 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 44 is based on the following fact situation.

Amber went food shopping at Pavilion's Market.
She purchased a can of sardines which had been
produced by Fishbone Fishery. A short while later
Amber was home when she decided to prepare a
sardine sandwich. When she opened the can, to her
astonishment she saw a decomposed mouse. Amber
became very nauseous and vomited upon seeing
the mouse.

After consulting with her attorney, Amber initiated
a strict liability action against Fishbone. At trial,
Amber presented into evidence the sardine can with
the label that read Fishbone Fishery. The attorney
representing Fishbone objected to the introduction
of the label on the can.

43. The trial court should

(A) overrule the objection, because the label

is self-authenticating

(C)

(B) overrule the objection, because the label
is the best evidence showing that the can
was produced by Fishbone
sustain the objection, unless there is cor-
roborating evidence that Fishbone
placed the label on the can
sustain the objection, because Amber's
proper cause of action is for infliction of
emotional distress not strict liability

(D)

Rosen was charged with false pretenses for
allegedly issuing bad checks. At trial, the prosecut-
ing attorney offered into evidence checks purport-
edly written by Rosen.

44. All of the following would constitute adequate

authentication of the checks EXCEPT

testimony by the person who has been
Rosen's bookkeeper for the last three
years that the writing is Rosen's
testimony by the police handwriting
expert that the writing matches Rosen's
on admittedly genuine exemplars
comparison of the checks by the trier of
fact with an admittedly genuine speci-
men of Rosen's handwriting made dur-
ing police interrogation
comparison of the checks by the police
officer who made the arrest with an
admittedly genuine specimen of Rosen's
handwriting

ponboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21

EVIDENCE

Question 45 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 46 is based on the following fact situation.

Lansky was arrested and charged with arson which
in this jurisdiction is defined as the "malicious or
intentional burning of any structure or dwelling."
When Lansky was arrested, he was inside a ware-
house that was engulfed in flames. At the time he
was apprehended, the police found in his possession
a book of matches with four matches missing.

At trial, the prosecution introduced the book of
matches into evidence. Following closing argu-
ments and before the jury retired for deliberations,
the judge gave instructions concerning the law of
the case. The judge instructed the jury that it could
infer defendant's intent to set the fire based on the
fact that four matches were missing from the
matchbook. This instruction was specifically
objected to by the defense counsel.

Austin was arrested and charged with robbery.
Austin denies committing the crime and claims he
is the victim of mistaken identity. At the time of
Austin's arrest, he was unmarried but living with
his girlfriend, Ashley. While Austin was awaiting
trial, he married Ashley. During the robbery trial,
the prosecution called Ashley to testify. She is
asked to describe the clothing that Austin was wear-
ing on the morning (of the robbery) when he left
the house. The prosecution wishes to corroborate
the testimony of an earlier witness who identified
the clothing worn by the perpetrator.

46. Austin and Ashley both object to Ashley's

being required to testify against Austin. May
Ashley refuse to testify?

(A) Yes, because Austin can prevent Ashley

45. The judge's jury instruction concerning defen-

from testifying.

dant's intent was

(A) proper, because it constituted a rebut-

table presumption of fact

(B) proper, because it constituted a permissi-

(C)

(D)

ble inference
improper, because the prosecution must
prove each element of the crime beyond
a reasonable doubt
improper, because the instruction shifts
the burden of persuasion from the prose-
cution to the defendant

(B) Yes, because Ashley has the right to

refuse to testify.

(C) No, because Austin and Ashley were not
married at the time of Austin's arrest.

(D) No, because the spousal privilege does

not apply.

EVIDENCE

22

psnl.v

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 47 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 48 is based on the following fact situation.

Bugliosi, an attorney, represented Polanski in a
criminal rape trial. The trial ended with a "hung
jury" as the jurors were unable to reach a unani-
mous verdict as required by law. Thereafter, the
prosecution indicated that it would seek to retry
Polanski on the criminal charge. In preparation for
the new trial, Bugliosi hired Clark, a non-lawyer
jury consultant, to interview Polanski and prepare
him for a possible second trial. Clark spent two
hours interviewing Polanski.

One week later, the prosecution filed the proper
notice of intent to retry Polanski and requested a
court order allowing the prosecution to depose
Clark regarding the substance of her interview with
the defendant. Bugliosi claimed the interview was
protected by the attorney-client privilege and filed a
motion to deny issuance of the requested discovery.

47. The court should

grant Bugliosi's motion, because at a
retrial the prosecution is barred from
introducing new statements made by the
defendant in the "interests of justice"
grant Bugliosi's motion, if defendant's
interview with the consultant was
intended to be confidential because
Clark was hired by Bugliosi to provide
assistance in the rendition of legal ser-
vices
deny Bugliosi's motion, because the
attorney-client privilege does not extend
to communications made to a non-
lawyer jury consultant
deny Bugliosi's motion, unless Bugliosi
was present during Clark's interview
with Polanski

Sonja Starbird was a patent attorney who worked as
a sole practitioner. She was an Emory Law School
graduate and had been admitted to the Georgia bar
in 1979. Recently, Sonja was sued by the Internal
Revenue Service  (I.R.S.) for nonpayment of taxes.
For three years Sonja represented Kodak Film
Company in a bitter trademark infringement action
against one of its competitors, Fuji.

During its discovery, the I.R.S. requested copies
of Sonja's billing records to Kodak as part of her
representation in the Fuji case. The I.R.S. claims
that the documents are necessary to determine
Sonja's income for the period of her alleged
underpayments.

48. Sonja has refused to turn over her billing

records in the Kodak-Fuji case to the I.R.S.
As a result, the I.R.S. has filed a motion
compelling discovery of such records. The
request should be

(A) denied, because the records are part of

the attorney's work product
(B) denied, because the attorney-client

privilege precludes the release of such
confidential records

(C) granted, because the requested

documents are not privileged

(D) granted, because the documents are the
best evidence as to Sonja's income

pssabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23

EVIDENCE

Question 49 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 50 is based on the following fact situation.

Morris Reese was arrested with two kilos of mari-
juana and charged with possession of narcotics with
intent to distribute. At trial, the prosecution called
Hoover Boone, the F.B.I. agent assigned to the nar-
cotics division, to testify as an expert witness.
Boone testified that an individual would not nor-
mally keep such a large quantity of narcotics for his
or her personal use and, in his opinion, Reese
intended to distribute the marijuana.

49. Reese's attorney objects to Boone's testimony.

The trial court judge should

overrule the objection, because it is
admissible as evidence of defendant's
intent to distribute
overrule the objection, because an
expert can render an opinion on an
ultimate issue in a case
sustain the objection, because a witness
cannot testify to defendant's state of
mind
sustain the objection, because it is
improper to prove intent by opinion
testimony

Plank sued Doyle for injuries sustained in an auto-
mobile accident. Plank claimed that Doyle was at
fault in causing the accident because he was operat-
ing his car negligently and at an excessive rate of
speed. At trial Plank called Wagner to testify on his
behalf. Wagner, a pharmaceutical salesman, pro-
poses to testify that he witnessed Doyle's car for
"five seconds before the accident and it was travel-
ing at 60 miles per hour...give or take 10 miles per
hour." The accident occurred along Highway 101
where the posted speed limit was 45 miles per hour.

50. Upon objection by Doyle's attorney, Wagner's

proposed testimony will be

(A) admissible, as a present sense

(B)

(C)

(D)

impression
admissible, as a proper lay opinion
which is relevant to help the trier of fact
prove a fact in issue
inadmissible, as hearsay not within any
recognized exception
inadmissible, because Wagner is not
shown to be qualified as an expert
witness

EVIDENCE

24

pssibto

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

M ULTISTATE SPECIALIST

C NS TITLITIONA
LAW

Constitutional law. (1) That branch of the pub
nation or state which treats of the organization,
frame of government, the distribution of pc
governmental authorities and functions, and fl
principles which are to regulate the relations of
and citizen, and which prescribes generally th
method according to which the public affairs of
or state are to be administered. (2) That denart

Question 1 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 2 is based on the following fact situation.

Congress held hearings for several months to
investigate reports that agents for the federal Drug
Enforcement Agency had planted drug evidence to
falsely accuse citizens of engaging in illegal drug
activity and staged armed nighttime raids of the
homes of other citizens without probable cause. At
the close of the hearings, Congress passed a new
federal statute aimed at limiting the investigation
powers of the Drug Enforcement Agency.
Concerned that the statute might be attacked as
making it appear that Congress was "soft on
crime," Congress added a non-severable provision
to the statute granting standing to "anyone who
wishes to challenge" the statute and providing that
the suits
would be heard in the federal district courts.
Wilson, a citizen who supports law enforcement,
brought suit in federal district court to challenge
the federal statute.

1.	

The district court should

dismiss the action, because there is no
case or controversy
dismiss the action, because Congress
has no constitutional power to confer
subject matter jurisdiction in the federal
district courts for actions to challenge
the constitutionality of a federal statute
hear the action and declare the statute
unconstitutional, because it is violative
of Article III of the federal Constitution
hear the action and declare the statute
constitutional

The Commonwealth of Newcastle has a vast coastal
shoreline. Each year thousands of boats are manu-
factured and sold in Newcastle. In light of its
expanded boat industry, Newcastle has passed a law
establishing a Department of Boating to oversee
and regulate boat sales within the state. In an insev-
erable provision, the Newcastle Boating Act also
prohibited any person from selling at retail any new
or used boat that has not been inspected and
approved for safety by a licensed boating inspection
station in Newcastle prior to the time the vendor
delivers possession to the purchaser. Despite
protests from boat manufacturers and dealers, the
Boating Act was passed by the Newcastle state
legislature and signed into law by the governor.

2.	 Which of the following persons is most likely

to be able to obtain in an appropriate federal
court an adjudication on the merits of the con-
stitutionality of the Newcastle Boating Act?

(A) A resident of Newcastle who is consid-
ering the possible purchase of an unin-
spected boat in that state.

(B) A resident of Newcastle who intends to

sell in Newcastle uninspected boats to
other residents of Newcastle.

(C) A boat manufacturer who sells to retail-
ers in Newcastle under ambiguous con-
tracts that might require the
manufacturer to reimburse the retailers
for the cost of such inspections.
(D) A taxpayer of the state of Newcastle

who believes the cost of enforcing this
statute is an utter waste of the state
funds.

pimebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 3 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 4 is based on the following fact situation.

A United States Air Force military plane mistakenly
shot down a commercial airplane operated by the
country of Ubiskagaski. U.S. Air Force officials
incorrectly believed that the jetliner was an enemy
plane that was about to attack a U.S. military instal-
lation. There were no survivors of the crash.
Families of the deceased passengers have hired
lawyers in the United States to sue the United
States government in federal district court for
wrongful death.

3.	

The federal district court should

(A) dismiss the action, because it is nonjus-
ticiable since it deals within the area of
foreign affairs

(B) dismiss the action, because it is nonjus-
ticiable since only U.S. citizens and resi-
dent aliens may bring suit in federal
court
dismiss the action, because the plaintiffs
lack standing under Article III of the
Constitution

(C)

(D) hear the case and decide its merits, if

there is statutory authority to allow for-
eigners to sue the U.S. government

In recent years, the city of Santa Ana has been
plagued by teenage gang violence. There have been
numerous incidents of sporadic shootings and stab-
bings involving gang members. Unfortunately, even
innocent bystanders have fallen victim to this gang
warfare. In an effort to alleviate the problem, the
city has opened a teenage discotheque where local
youths can mingle and dance while under adult
supervision. Only teenage boys and girls between
the ages of 13 to 19 are permitted to enter the club.

When the discotheque first opened, an unexpected
problem presented itself. There were a lot more
male teenagers frequenting the club than females.
This resulted in much harassment and fights which
only contributed to the girls staying away. In order
to try to correct this situation, the Santa Ana City
Council passed an ordinance that provided that any
male teenager desiring to enter the discotheque
must be accompanied by a female.

After this ordinance went into affect, Cody Cleaver,
an 18-year-old youth, was denied admission to the
discotheque because he came alone. He then filed
suit in federal court challenging the constitutional-
ity of the Santa Ana ordinance. Before his suit
came to trial, Cody got married. Also, a Santa Ana
city councilwoman has now indicated that she is
considering to propose a resolution repealing the
ordinance.

4.	

In light of the foregoing facts, the federal
court should

(A) hear the case
(B) dismiss the case as moot
(C) dismiss the case as unripe
(D)

abstain for a short period of time to see
whether the city councilwoman does
propose a resolution repealing the ordi-
nance

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

2

pmsble

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 5 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 6 is based on the following fact situation.

Congress enacted a statute providing that persons
may challenge a state energy law on the ground that
it is in conflict with the federal Constitution in
either federal or state court. According to this fed-
eral statute, any decision by a lower state court
upholding a state energy law against a challenge
based on the federal Constitution may be appealed
directly to the United States Supreme Court.

5.	

The provisions of this statute that authorize
direct United States Supreme Court review of
specified decisions rendered by lower state
courts are

constitutional, because congressional
control over questions of energy usage is
plenary
constitutional, because Congress may
establish the manner by which the appel-
late jurisdiction of the United States
Supreme Court is exercised
unconstitutional, because they infringe
the sovereign right of states to have their
supreme courts review decisions of their
lower state courts
unconstitutional, because Article  III
does not give the Supreme Court the
power to directly hear such appeals

Congress was concerned about the growth of com-
merce taking place over the Internet. In
Congressional hearings, business interests con-
vinced Congress that the growth of Internet com-
merce would be seriously restricted unless limits
were placed on the ability of plaintiffs to file suit in
a distant federal court against out-of-state website
operators who lack the financial resources to
answer suit in every state where an Internet user
might be located. After the hearings had ended, the
members of Congress agreed that the growth of the
Internet and availability of state courts for redress
of Internet grievances had rendered federal court
suits based on diversity of citizenship an unneces-
sary and dangerous impediment to the growth of
Internet commerce. Thus, the Congress, over the
veto of the President, enacted legislation which
completely barred all suits filed in federal court
based on diversity of citizenship jurisdiction.

6.	

This legislation is

(A) unconstitutional, it violates the doctrine
of separation of powers by usurping the
jurisdiction of the federal judiciary man-
dated by Article III of the Constitution

(C)

(B) unconstitutional, it violates 5th
Amendment Due Process
constitutional, it is within Congress'
power to provide the jurisdiction of infe-
rior federal courts consistent with
Article III
constitutional, as a necessary and proper
means of protecting the general welfare

(D)

psnbo•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 7 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 8 is based on the following fact situation.

During the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los
Angeles, Algerian terrorists captured the U.S. vol-
leyball team and threatened to kill them unless
President Reagan released three fellow Algerians
who were being held in prison in California. The
Algerians who were in prison had been prosecuted
and convicted in a California state court for kidnap-
ping. President Reagan realized that if the volley-
ball team was murdered it would destroy any
chance the United States had of winning a gold
medal in that competition. Under intense pressure
from the U.S. Olympic Committee, President
Reagan decided to make an exception to his inflexi-
ble stand on international terrorism. He issued a
presidential pardon for the Algerian prisoners and
ordered Governor Dukemejian to release them.
However, the governor refused to honor the
Presidential order.

7.	 Which of the following is the strongest consti-

tutional ground for the governor's refusal to
release the prisoners?

The President's power as Commander-
in-Chief does not extend to persons held
in state custody.
The President has the constitutional
power to grant pardons or reprieves only
for offenses against the United States.
Under intergovernmental immunity, the
governor acting pursuant to state laws
may disregard inconsistent orders by
federal officials.
The President's duty to take care that the
laws be faithfully executed required that
he honor all the terms of a state court
conviction.

The Clean Air and Water Protection Act is a federal
statute that was enacted as part of a comprehensive
program to protect the air and water quality in the
United States. As an inseverable component of the
legislation, a committee of five members was given
the power to draft and enforce regulations to regu-
late air and water quality. According to the statute,
three of the five members were to be appointed by
the President and the other two committee members
would be selected by the top official in charge of
the federal Environmental Protection Agency.
Behemouth, Inc., a major chemical company,
brought an action in the federal district court claim-
ing that the statute was unconstitutional.

8.	

The federal court should rule that the
statute is

(A) unconstitutional, because the members
of the committee will be exercising
administrative power and thus can only
be appointed by the President

(C)

(B) unconstitutional, because the members
of the committee will be exercising
quasi-legislative power and thus can
only be appointed by Congress
constitutional, because Congress may
delegate to committees the power to
draft whatever legislation may be neces-
sary and proper to effectuate valid fed-
eral legislative goals

(D) constitutional, because Congress may

vest the appointment of inferior officers
in this manner

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

4

ponbso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 9 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 10 is based on the following fact situation.

President Clinton was a longtime admirer of
Crispus Attucks, one of the five men killed in the
Boston Massacre. As his last official act as presi-
dent, Clinton issued an executive order making
January 2nd, Crispus Attucks' birthday, as a paid
national holiday for federal executive employees.

Congressional legislation currently in effect desig-
nates ten paid national holidays for federal em-
ployees. The applicable federal law neither
authorizes nor prohibits the president's action.
Clinton's executive order extends only to members
of the executive branch of the federal government.

Faith Hall is a recent Harvard Law School graduate
who has been hired by Supreme Court Justice
Scalia as a law clerk. Faith is upset because she is
required to work on January 2nd and President
Clinton's order does not extend to federal judicial
employees. Faith brings suit in federal court chal-
lenging the validity of the executive order.

The President was concerned about a possible trade
embargo imposed on U.S. exports to the country of
Blekarne because U.S. manufacturers operating in
Blekarne were paying wages to Blekarne workers at
a rate substantially lower than those paid to U.S.
workers performing comparable work. In order to
avoid this problem, the President entered into an
executive agreement with the leader of Blekarne
requiring that any U.S. based company employing
workers in Blekarne must pay those workers no
less than 80 percent as much as any U.S. worker
employed by the company in the U.S. performing
a similar function. Several U.S. manufacturers
complained that this would place them at a gross
disadvantage compared to non-U.S. based compa-
nies who did not have to increase their wages for
Blekarne workers. The U.S. manufacturers com-
plained to Congress, but Congress was unable to
produce legislation satisfactory to a majority of
the members.

9.	

The executive order is

10. If the executive agreement is challenged in

federal court, the court will

constitutional, because it is not expressly
prohibited by any prior act of Congress
constitutional, because the President as
chief executive has plenary power over
employment matters of executive
employees
unconstitutional, because it is an execu-
tive act that usurps congressional
authority
unconstitutional, because it discrimi-
nates against federal employees outside
the executive branch who are not given
the paid holiday

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

refuse to hear the case because matters
of foreign policy are nonjusticiable
political questions
rule that the executive agreement is con-
stitutional as within the powers of the
executive branch but is subject to judi-
cial review
rule that the executive agreement is
unconstitutional since the subject of the
agreement requires that a treaty be
entered into with the full advice and
consent of the Senate
rule that the executive agreement is
unconstitutional since it violates the
Contract Clause rights of U.S. manufac-
turers

pmabs•

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 11 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 12 is based on the following fact situation.

Congress passes a Water Conservation Act. The act
requires all users of water in this country to reduce
their consumption by a specified percentage, to be
set by a presidential executive order. The act sets
forth specific standards the President must use in
setting the percentage and detailed procedures to
be followed.

11. The provision that allows the President to set

the exact percentage is probably

(A)

(B)

constitutional, because it creates a lim-
ited administrative power to implement
the statute
constitutional, because inherent execu-
tive powers permit such action even
without statutory authorization

(C) unconstitutional, as an undue delegation
of legislative power to the executive
(D) unconstitutional, because it violates the
Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment

The Florida legislature has passed a law banning
the sale of phen fen, a popular weight loss pill,
within the state due to widespread reports that
the drug caused users to suffer cardiac arrest. The
Florida statute prohibited the sale and distribution
of phen fen either by prescription or by over-the-
counter sales. Violation of the statute was pro-
scribed to be a misdemeanor punishable by a
$1,000 fine.

After the Florida law was enacted, the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), a federal agency,
issued an administrative order allowing the sale of
phen fen by prescription only.

Eli Einhorn is a registered pharmacist who owns
and operates a pharmacy in Miami Beach. Sophie
Sadler, a Miami Beach resident, was given a
prescription for phen fen by her physician. She
presented the prescription to Eli who dispensed
phen fen to her. Thereafter, Eli was charged with
violating the Florida statute prohibiting the sale of
phen fen.

12. As Eli awaited trial, his attorney filed suit

challenging the constitutionality of the Florida
statute. The court will likely hold that the
statute is

(A) valid, because the state law was enacted

(C)

prior to the administrative order
(B) valid, because a state law takes prece-
dence over a conflicting administrative
order
invalid, because an administrative order
of a federal agency supersedes a con-
flicting state law
invalid, because the FDA has plenary
power to regulate the sale and distribu-
tion of drugs within the United States

(D)

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

6

pmsbie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation. 	

Question 14 is based on the following fact situation.

14. In which of the following instances would the
11th Amendment most likely bar the court
action?

(A) Citizen of New York files action against
New York Attorney General in U.S.
District Court seeking an injunction
against enforcement of a New York pol-
icy that alleges violations of federal law.
(B) Citizen of California files action against

Governor of Nevada in a Nevada state
court seeking injunction against enforce-
ment of Nevada statute that alleges vio-
lation of federal law.

(C) Citizen of Illinois sues City of Chicago
in U.S. District Court for alleged viola-
tions of federal law.

(D) Citizen of Florida sues the Florida

Board of Regents in U.S. District Court
for damages and injunction for alleged
violations of federal law.

The state of Oklahoma has passed a law requiring
all commercial restaurants to cook their beef and
hamburger meat at a minimum temperature of 165
degrees Fahrenheit. This law which became known
as the "E. Coli Prevention Act" went into effect
January 1, 2004. According to an inseverable provi-
sion of the law, Oklahoma health inspectors were
empowered to levy fines and/or revoke the business
permits of any restaurant failing to comply with the
health measure. The state legislature enacted this
law in order to ensure that beef was properly
cooked to kill the E. Coli bacteria. An E. Coli
bacteria epidemic has spread across Oklahoma
and various sections of the United States resulting
in many deaths to infant children. Health
authorities have attributed the E. Coli epidemic
to under-cooked beef mostly from fast food
restaurant chains.

In 2001, Congress passed a similar bill requiring all
commercial restaurants to cook their beef at a mini-
mum temperature of 150 degrees Fahrenheit. After
the Oklahoma law went into effect, a state health
inspector determined that Burp's Burger King
restaurant in Tulsa was cooking its beef at 155
degrees Fahrenheit. As a consequence, the
Oklahoma State Health Department moved to
revoke Burp's business license as per the provision
in the "E. Coli Prevention Act."

13. If Burp's Burger King brings suit to attack the
constitutionality of the Oklahoma "E. Coli
Prevention Act", the state law will likely be
held

(A) valid, as a reasonable exercise of the
state's police power to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of its citizenry
(B) valid, because health matters are consid-
ered to be a fundamental constitutional
right of the citizens of the various states.
invalid, because it conflicts with the
federal law
invalid, because it violates the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment

(D)

(C)

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 15 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 16 is based on the following fact situation.

The U.S. Department of the Interior granted Reeves
a food and drink concession in a federal park
located in the State of Cumberland. Reeves oper-
ated this concession for his own profit. The conces-
sion was operated in federally-owned facilities, for
which Reeves paid rent, and served visiting tourists
from all over the country.

The legislature of the State of Cumberland, in an
effort to equalize state tax burdens, passed a law
imposing a rental use tax on all persons occupying
real property in Cumberland for which no state real
property taxes are paid. Pursuant to the new law,
the Cumberland Department of Revenue attempted
to collect the state rental use tax from Reeves,
based on the estimated fair market rental value of
the federal facilities housing his operation. Reeves
sued in federal district court to invalidate the state
rental use tax as applied to him.

15. The District Court should hold that the state

rental use tax in this instance is

(A) valid, because federal property used for
proprietary purposes is not immune
from nondiscriminatory state taxation
(B) valid, provided the tax does not discrimi-

(C)

(D)

nate against interstate commerce
invalid, because this tax interferes with
Reeves' right to serve interstate tourists
on federal property
invalid, because the Supremacy Clause
does not permit taxation of any federally
owned property

In order to resolve a longstanding territorial dispute
with the Poco Indians, Congress enacted a statute
conveying 1,000 acres of federal land in southeast
Idaho to the Indian tribe. The statute provided that
the land in question would be sold to the Poco tribe
for the price of $1.00. After enactment of this
statute was made public, many other Indian tribes
protested the government's action. In particular, the
Aloquonquin Indian tribe, who claimed title to a
large tract of federal land in northern Michigan,
was angered because no similar land conveyance
was made to them.

16. The Aloquonquin Indian tribe brought suit in
an appropriate federal district court challeng-
ing the constitutionality of this federal statute.
Assuming that the Aloquonquin tribe has ade-
quate standing, which of the following state-
ments concerning this suit is most accurate?

(A) The court should treat the action of

Congress as presumptively valid because
the Constitution expressly gives
Congress power to dispose of the terri-
tory or other property belonging to the
United States.

(B) The court should treat the action of

Congress as presumptively invalid
because $1.00 consideration is wholly
inadequate to compensate the govern-
ment for the conveyance of such a large
tract of land.

(C) The court should hold this statute to be

constitutional only if substantial evi-
dence demonstrates that the Poco Indian
tribe did, in fact, have a valid claim to
the land in question.

(D) The court should hold this statute to be
unconstitutional because it denies other
Indian tribes the equal protection of the
laws.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

8

patabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 17 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 18 is based on the following fact situation.

The state of Midwest recently enacted legislation
authorizing the state's tax collection agency to issue
refunds of state tax payments in the form of
"Midwest Bucks." Midwest Bucks are vouchers
good for the purchase of various consumer goods at
special state retail outlets. In practice, one Midwest
Buck is slightly greater in buying power than one
dollar, since the special state retail stores are
exempted from paying state retail sales tax. A sig-
nificant commerce in Midwest Bucks has sprung
up independent of the state retail stores, since many
people are willing to accept Midwest Bucks in
exchange for services or property knowing that they
can use them to purchase goods at the state stores.
The United States government has instituted an
action in federal court to declare the Midwest
Bucks legislation unconstitutional.

17. Which of the following is the strongest argu-

ment supporting a judicial declaration that the
challenged statute is unconstitutional?

(A) The statute unduly burdens commerce.
(B) The statute violates the Privileges and
Immunities Clause of Article IV.

(C) The statute is inconsistent with the

express power of the federal government
to coin money and regulate its value.

(D) The authority to tax, and the concomi-

tant authority to issue tax refunds in any
legitimate manner, is inherent in the
powers reserved to the states by the
Tenth Amendment.

A state university adopts a policy prohibiting the
admission of any student who is a citizen of a
country in which United States citizens have been
held as hostages in the last five years. Fouad is
denied admission to the university because he is a
citizen of Iraq, a nation where several Americans
are being held hostage.

18. Which of the following is the strongest argu-

ment with which to attack the constitutionality
of this policy?

The state university policy conflicts with
the negative implications flowing from
the federal government's authority over
foreign relations.
Denial of admission to these foreigners
for such past actions of their govern-
ments is an ex post facto law.
Admission to a university is so impor-
tant to a person's economic prospects
that it is considered a property interest
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Admission to a state university is a priv-
ilege and immunity protected against
state infringement by the Fourteenth
Amendment.

pbleMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 19 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 20 is based on the following fact situation.

In September, Hurricane Helga struck the Florida
coast with devastating force. Helga was a grade 5
hurricane and caused over $100,000,000 in dam-
ages. Florida farmers were especially hit hard by
the hurricane which destroyed over 30% of the
state's citrus crops. As a consequence, Congress
passed an emergency farm aid bill providing
$50,000,000 in subsidies to Florida orange growers
to compensate them for their economic losses.

Clearly, Florida's economy is very much dependent
upon the orange industry, which is its largest staple
crop. The federal farm aid bill, however, did not
provide any compensation to Florida farmers grow-
ing crops other than oranges.

19. Pappas is a Florida papaya farmer who suf-

fered substantial economic loss when his
entire crop was destroyed by Hurricane Helga.
Pappas challenges the constitutionality of the
aforementioned federal law. Is this act of
Congress constitutional?

Yes, because Congress has exclusive
jurisdiction as to the propriety of dis-
persing federal funds which is not sub-
ject to judicial review.
Yes, because Congress has the power to
appropriate funds for the general welfare
even though disparate treatment is given
to different groups.
No, because the law violates the equal
protection rights of farmers of products
other than oranges who are not entitled
to governmental subsidies.
No, because the law denies farmers of
products other than oranges their funda-
mental rights without due process.

Congress was concerned about the privacy of
Internet communication and banking transactions
conducted at automated teller machines (ATMs). In
order to increase the protections afforded these
electronic transactions and communications,
Congress passed the Cyberspace Privacy Act
(CPA). Under the CPA, all encryption technology
(encryption is the process by which a computer pro-
gram changes readable text information into an
unreadable algorithm or mathematical equation)
used to secure Internet and ATM transactions was
subject to federal regulation. The CPA strictly regu-
lated the development, use and sale of all encryp-
tion software.

One provision of the CPA expressly empowered the
Office of Defense Trade Controls (ODTC), a fed-
eral agency, to regulate the import and export of all
encryption technology with foreign countries.
Accordingly, the ODTC was given authority to pro-
hibit the export of any encryption system of soft-
ware if, in the judgment of the ODTC, the export
would threaten national security or other foreign
policy interests.

Professor Gates, a recognized expert on
Management Information Systems (MIS), has
developed an encryption software program that he
was negotiating to sell to a company in France. The
ODTC has refused to issue an authorization approv-
ing the sale of Professor Gates' encryption software
to the French company.

20. Professor Gates filed suit in federal district
court challenging the constitutionality of the
Cyberspace Privacy Act. The legislation is

(A)

(B)

constitutional, under the Commerce
Clause
constitutional, because Congress has the
power to regulate for the general welfare

(C) unconstitutional, because it deprives

Professor Gates of a property right with-
out just compensation

(D) unconstitutional, because it usurps the
power of the executive branch to con-
duct foreign affairs

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

1 0

psnbr

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Question 21 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 22 is based on the following fact situation.

Congress was very concerned about the rise in gun-
related deaths and injuries that had been occurring
in the schools. To combat the problem, Congress
passed a statute which required the states to enact
legislation that made it a crime to sell, possess, or
transport any firearm within 100 yards of any
school if that firearm had been purchased or sold
through or using any instrumentality of interstate
commerce.

21. Is the statute constitutional?

(A) Yes, because the statute will permit a

case-by-case review of the adequacy of
an interstate commerce connection
between the permissible objectives of
the federal statute and any individual
criminal prosecution.

(B) Yes, because the statute is a proper

attempt to regulate interstate commerce
in its inseverable aggregates.

(C) No, under the separation of powers doc-
trine, Congress cannot commandeer the
states to enact and enforce legislation.
(D) No, the connection between interstate

commerce and the purpose of the regu-
lation is too remote to justify the exer-
cise of the Commerce Clause power.

The state of North Durango enacted a statute
prohibiting any motor vehicles traveling within the
state to have Windowtinting or glass coating of any
kind. The bill, known as the "Window Tint" Act,
passed the state legislature at the urging of state and
local law enforcement agencies who argued that
tinted windows prevented them from observing
interior car activity. Most citizens also supported
the "Window Tint" Act, especially after a North
Durango state trooper was gunned down and killed
by an occupant in a window tinted limousine. The
trooper was unable to see that his assailant was
armed and dangerous when he approached the
vehicle for a speeding infraction.

Luxury Limousine Company operates a limo
service in the neighboring state of South Durango.
Luxury has a fleet of 68 limos all of which have
tinted windows. Each year Luxury makes thousands
of trips into North Durango to transport passengers
to Durango International Airport (situated ten miles
from the South Durango border) and other destina-
tions. Since all its limos are manufactured with
tinted windows, Luxury will incur a great expense
to specially order limos without tinting.

22. Luxury brings suit to challenge the constitu-

tionality of the North Durango "Window Tint"
Act. Assuming that Luxury has proper stand-
ing to assert such an action, which of the
following is Luxury's strongest constitutional
argument to invalidate the aforesaid statute?

(A) Because window tinting is permitted on

vehicles in neighboring states, this law
denies Luxury the equal protection of
laws whenever its limos operate within
North Durango.

(B) Because this law burdens interstate com-

merce by prohibiting all vehicles with
window tinting from entering the state,
this law violates the Commerce Clause.
(C) Because window tinting on vehicles is

legal in South Durango but illegal in
North Durango, this law violates the
Contract Clause by preventing Luxury
from fulfilling its obligation to transport
passengers into North Durango.

(D) Because interstate travel is a fundamental

right that may not be burdened by state
law, it violates Luxury's substantive due
process rights by arbitrarily and unrea-
sonably regulating economic activity.

pirstbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Question 23 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 24 is based on the following fact situation.

The state of Rutherford is known for its coal pro-
duction. The neighboring state of Chippewa also
contains large coal deposits. Chippewa's main coal
mining company, however, is in poor financial
shape, and there are rumors in the industry that it
may cease doing business and sell a large quantity
of coal at bargain prices.

Fearful of an impending glut on the market and the
consequent effect on the local coal industry, the
Rutherford state legislature enacts a law which pro-
hibits sales of coal within the Rutherford state
boundaries at less than $25/ton, which is the cur-
rent market price.

23. This law is most likely to be held constitu-
tional as applied to which of the following
coal vendors?

A Chippewa vendor offering coal for
sale to the general public in the state of
Rutherford at $20/ton.
A Rutherford vendor offering coal for
sale to the U.S. Veteran's Hospital in
Rutherford at $20/ton.
A Rutherford vendor offering coal for
sale to a manufacturing plant in
Rutherford at $20/ton.
A vendor located outside of the United
States offering coal for sale to the gen-
eral public in the state of Rutherford for
$20/ton.

Tish, an avid sports fan, lived in Honolulu.
Recently, Select Television, a privately owned and
operated company, applied for a permit to provide
cable television service to residents of the city. By a
vote of 9 to 3, the Honolulu City Council approved
Select Television's application and granted a permit
for a city franchise. Thereafter, Tish subscribed
with Select which then installed cable service to
Tish's home. Tish subscribed with Select because it
offered a wide range of sports programs from all
across the country.

Select installed cable service at Tish's home in
February. For the next four months, Tish promptly
paid the $25 monthly charge for the cable service.
In July, however, Tish was fired from his job as a
sushi chef at Benihana Restaurant. Unable to find
any work and short of cash, Tish failed to pay
Select's bill for the months of July and August.

On August 31, Select removed its cable television
lines to Tish's home. At no time did Select notify
Tish that it would be disconnecting service.
However, unknown to Tish it was Select's policy to
terminate service to any customer who failed to pay
his or her bill for two consecutive months.

A short time later, Tish brought suit against Select
in federal court seeking an order restoring his cable
service. Tish's suit was based solely on the ground
that Select's failure to grant Tish a hearing before
disconnecting his cable service violated his due
process rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.

24. Based on the given facts, the federal court

should rule in favor of

(B)

(A) Select, because the ownership of a city
franchise is not sufficient state action to
make the franchisee subject to the
Fourteenth Amendment
Select, because the ownership of a city
franchise allows the franchisee to assert
successfully the city's sovereign immu-
nity under the Eleventh Amendment
(C) Tish, because under the Fourteenth

Amendment a person may not be
deprived of a valuable property right
without notice or an opportunity for a
hearing

(D) Tish, because a business operating under
a city franchise is effectively within the
public interest, and therefore it is subject
to constitutional requirements of proce-
dural due process

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

12

pssibse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST


Question 25 is based on the following fact situation.

Question 26 is based on the following fact situation.

Paul recently left his job in Wildwood, a rural
community in the State of Calzona, and moved his
family to Industria in search of new career opportu-
nities there. Industria is located in an urbanized
metropolitan area of Calzona which has been expe-
riencing tremendous employment and residential
growth of late. When Paul informed his insurance
carrier, Good Neighbor Insurance Company, of the
change of residence, he was notified that his auto
and home insurance rates would increase by 300
percent due to the large number of traffic accidents
and theft claims occurring in Industria. The insur-
ance industry is highly regulated by Calzona law,
including the licensing and solvency of all insur-
ance companies operating within the state. There
are no state laws regulating the rates for insurance
practices of the companies.

25. If Paul brings suit in a Calzona state court

claiming the rate increase is discriminatory in
violation of the Equal Protection Clause and
the court rules against him, the most likely
reason will be because

(A)

(B)
(C)

(D)

states have plenary power to regulate the
insurance industry within their own state
boundaries
there is a valid reason to discriminate
the Equal Protection Clause is not
applicable
the Equal Protection Clause is satisfied

Recent evidence reported in leading medical jour-
nals suggests that hearing loss affects 75 percent of
citizens over the age of 70. The legislature of the
State of Watusi, concerned with increasing the
quality of care to its senior citizens, passes a bill
providing that on or after January 1, 2007, only
medical doctors with specialized training in audiol-
ogy may prescribe and sell hearing aids. The law
provides a "grandfather clause" however, exempting
all currently registered vendors of hearing aids who
have no medical training, so long as they remain in
business.

26. Frank Fearless, an M.D. who operates a hear-
ing clinic, brings suit challenging the grandfa-
ther clause exemption in the new statute. The
exemption in the law for all currently regis-
tered vendors of hearing aids will probably be
found to be

constitutional, because the classification
between existing and new vendors has a
rational basis
constitutional, because those who law-
fully engage in an occupation have a
fundamental right to continue to do so
unconstitutional, because the statute
denies the equal protection of the laws
to those patients who purchase hearing
aids from non-physicians
unconstitutional, because the statute
denies non-physicians desiring to enter
this occupation the equal protection of
the laws

pin1w

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST