I

ASSIGNEE

pintas*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

17

CONTRACTS

possboo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

0 = Offeror	
Kt = Contract

E = Offeree

OFFER — Statement which
(1) reasonably appears to
indicate a willingness (2) to
be presently bound (3) to a
definite commitment (4) upon
E's acceptance.

CONTRACTS OFFER AND ACCEPTANCE
MIG 5
Multistate Issue Graph

REASONABLE APPEARANCE — objective test, applies even to offers made in jest or anger

PRESENTLY BOUND

NOT EXPRESSION OF FUTURE INTENT OR INTEREST (e.g.,
request for quotation).

ADVERTISEMENTS — generally deemed to be "invitations to an
offer" unless quantity is specific and language of promise is present.

AMBIGUITIES — construed against O.

DEFINITENESS

Parties — only E can accept (rewards are
generally offers for unilateral Kt).
Subject Matter
Quantity
Price — if unstated, UCC implies reasonable
price at time of delivery, payment due at time
and place buyer receives goods.
Time for Performance — if unstated, UCC
implies reasonable time at seller's place.
OFFEREE'S ACCEPTANCE — formation of the Kt in the hands of E; no further act by 0 required.

ESSENTIAL TERMS

MEDIUM — unless 0 unambiguously indicates otherwise, offer may accepted by any medium.

PERFORMANCE	

MANNER OF
ACCEPTANCE

BILATERAL CONTRACT — where offer may be accepted by a promise, E may also
accept by performing, but must inform 0 that he is doing so.

UNILATERAL CONTRACT —  if offer specifically calls for performance (not a mere
promise), no notice to 0 required if E performs (modern view forms Kt upon commence-
ment, but some courts say 0 may revoke any time prior to completion.)

PROMISE TO PERFORM — an offer may be accepted by dispatch of a promise to perform unless offer specifically
calls for performance.

SILENCE — valid acceptance if: 	

E INTENDS TO ACCEPT BY SILENCE AND 0 PRESCRIBES
SILENCE, or
PREVIOUS DEALINGS IMPLY ACCEPTANCE, or
 TAKING BENEFIT OR EXERCISING CONTROL —  if E has opportunity
to reject offer but instead takes benefits or exercises dominion over
goods offered.

UNEQUIVOCAL ACCEPTANCE — unequivocal acceptance (even if "grumbling") forms Kt upon dispatch.
COMMON LAW — proposal of new terms (not mere inquiries
for a better offer) makes acceptance invalid and acts as
counteroffer (i.e., a rejection).

EQUIVOCAL ACCEPTANCE:
PROPOSING NEW TERMS

UCC — a "definite and seasonable" acceptance which proposes
new but not inconsistent terms forms a Kt on O's terms if E's
acceptance is in writing; 0 may accept or reject new terms.

UCC MERCHANT'S RULE —  between merchants, if E
proposes new but not inconsistent terms along with a "definite
and seasonable" acceptance, Kt includes new terms unless:
(1) 0 explicitly objects to new terms, or (2) new terms materially
alter original offer, or (3) offer expressly limited to O's terms

OFFEREE'S RESPONSE

REJECTION — terminates offer when received by O.
COUNTEROFFER — operates as a rejection when received by 0 and terminates original offer.
INDECISION — offer remains open until terminated by 0 or lapse of time.

TERMINATION OF OFFER

REVOCATION — offer terminates
when E receives notice of O's
revocation in spite of express
promise not to revoke unless:

Paid-for Option — promise to keep offer open supported
by consideration.

UCC Firm Offer — promise to keep offer open is
enforceable without consideration if:  (1) made by
merchant, (2) signed writing for the (3) sale of goods and
(4) E accepts within three months.

REJECTION — an express rejection or counteroffer terminates an offer  upon receipt.
INDIRECT REVOCATION —  unaccepted offer terminates when E  learns of acts by 0 inconsistent with
offer.
LAPSE OF TIME — unaccepted offer expires upon lapse of time stated in offer or by a "reasonable
time."
DEATH OR INSANITY — unaccepted offer terminates when E learns of O's death or insanity.
DESTRUCTION OF SUBJECT MATTER —  offer terminates when subject matter of offer is destroyed.

INTERVENING ILLEGALITY — offer legal when made terminates if made illegal before acceptance.

AppLTISTATEbire IC=T6RACTS	

THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES

SL

Multistate Issue Graph

DEFINITIONS

Promissee-Benefactor (X) E	

Promisor (Y)

Third Party Beneficiary

ISSUE SPOTTING SEQUENCE
(1) What was X's intent with

regard to the benefit conferred
upon Z?

(2) What rights does Z have to
enforce the contract?

THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES:
Contractual rights created in a third
person at the time of formation:

STATUS OF BENEFICIARY
What was X's intent with
regard to the benefit conferred
upon Z?

INCIDENTAL BENEFICIARY — if X had no specific intent or motive to confer a benefit on Z.

DONEE BENEFICIARY —  if X intended to confer a gratuitous gift on Z.

CREDITOR BENEFICIARY — if X was conferring a benefit on Z to satisfy a pre-existing debt or
obligation.

INCIDENTAL BENEFICIARY — no right against either Y or X.

RIGHTS OF BENEFICIARY
If Y fails to perform for Z's
benefit, what rights does Z
have?

DONEE BENEFICIARY —  Z's rights vest
upon knowledge of X-Y contract (some
states require reliance), thereafter Z has
the following rights:

CREDITOR BENEFICIARY —  Z's rights
vest upon his reliance on X-Y contract.

Against Y — Z stands in shoes of X in suit
against Y.

Against X — Z may prevent X from rescinding
X-Y contract but may not sue X if Y fails to
perform.

Against Y — Z stands in shoes of X in suit
against Y.

Against X — Z may sue X on original obligation
disregarding X-Y contract (unless there was a
novation).

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONTRACTS

   MIG 7

Multistate Issue Graph

CONTRACT REMEDIES

Restitution — recovery of money already paid to breaching party (less possible  quantum meruit offset).
Reliance Costs — recovery of out-of-pocket expenses in preparing to perform.
Incidental Costs — recovery of costs necessitated by breach directly relating to the contract itself (e.g., shipping, storage, inspection,
reselling or repurchasing).

MONEY DAMAGES — normal remedy; should
place non-breaching party in position he would
have been in had the contract been performed.

Expected Bargained For Benefit  —
not including anticipated profits (see
consequential costs).

Consequential Costs and Losses —
money damages resulting from special
situation of non-breaching party  (not
including mental anguish or
inconvenience).

Liquidated Damages — contractual
provision setting the total amount of all
money damages in the event of breach
(does not bar non-monetary remedies);
if invalid, non-breacher may prove and
collect actual damages.

SALES CONTRACTS —
the contract price.

SERVICE CONTRACT

difference between the market price at the time of breach and

Employee — full contract price if she has performed
or stands ready to do so (less mitigation).
Employer — recovery limited to costs of replacement.

FORESEEABLE — Hadley v Baxendale — reasonably foreseeable costs and losses
contemplated by both parties at the time of the contract may be recovered.
MITIGATION — non-breacher's recovery must be reduced by amount yielded or yieldable
by reasonable efforts to reduce costs of breach.

REASONABLE AMOUNT — amount must be reasonable in light of parties'
contemplations at the time of contract.
NECESSARY — amount of actual damages must be difficult to ascertain.
TAILORED TO CONTRACT —  provision must be tailored to nature of contract (i.e., not
boilerplate).

SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE — court may order
breaching party to perform the contract.  

RESCISSION — cancellation of the contract to
put parties as they were before the contract. 

Punitive Damages — only available in extreme cases of malicious or intentional breach (like a separate tort recovery).

Contract Must be Valid and Enforceable

Money Damages Must Be Inadequate

UNIQUE SUBJECT MATTER —  land, stock of close corporation, one-of-a-kind item.
AMOUNT NOT ASCERTAINABLE

No Special Problems of Enforcement —  (e.g., personal service contract may not be specifically enforced).
Subject to Equitable Defenses — look for (1) unclean hands, (2) laches, (3) estoppel.

Grounds 

MUTUAL MISTAKE IN FORMATION
FRAUD — knowing misrepresentation of material fact relied upon by non-breacher.
MAJOR BREACH CHANGING NATURE OF AGREEMENT

Requirements

NON-BREACHING PARTY MUST HAVE CLEAN HANDS
NOTIFICATION WITHIN REASONABLE TIME
RESTORATION OF BREACHER TO STATUS QUO — non-breacher must return all consideration unless
alteration or change made in good faith reliance that breacher would perform.

REFORMATION — court may reform contract to accurately describe the actual agreement if there was a mutual mistake.
QUASI-CONTRACT — if no formal contract and work has been partly or fully performed, plaintiff may collect reasonable value of services  from the actor's point of view; if an express contract was breached,
P may sue on the contract or, if there are grounds for rescission, rescind it and sue for the reasonable value of services performed or goods transferred using the quasi-contract theory. This is actually an
alternative theory for money damages based on equity rather than contract.


MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CRIMINAL
LAW

Criminal law. The substantive criminal law
which for the purpose of preventing harm to
declares what conduct is criminal, and (b)
punishment to be imposed for such conduct. It
definition of specific offenses and general p:
liability.	
Substantative criminal laws are
codified into criminal or penal codes; e.g. U.S
18, California Penal Code, Model Penal Code

1 (A) As already noted in this question, bad thoughts alone cannot constitute a crime; there
must be an act, or an omission to act where there is a legal duty to act. Thus, the common
law crimes are defined in terms of act or omission to act, and statutory crimes are unconsti-
tutional unless so defined. In the present example, choice (B) is wrong because the facts are
not clear whether Bernie acted voluntarily. Although a physician testified that Bernie's brain
tumor could at times deprive him of his ability to control his movements, there is no show-
ing that he acted involuntarily. Choice (C) is incorrect because one may be guilty of crimi-
nal homicide even though she is unconscious or asleep at the time of the fatal impact (as
where A, being subject to frequent fainting spells, has such a spell while driving her car).
Here, Cassandra's voluntary act consists of driving the car, and if the necessary mental state
can be established as of that time (e.g., finding recklessness on the basis of her knowledge
that she was an epileptic), it is enough to make her guilty of a manslaughter. By the same
token, choice (D) is not the best answer because voluntary intoxication (either by alcohol or
drugs) will never reduce a murder to a manslaughter. At most, intoxication (if it robs the
defendant of his ability to premeditate and deliberate) will reduce his crime from first degree
to second degree murder. However, it will never result in an acquittal, so therefore choice (D)
is wrong. Choice (A) is correct because according to LaFave "one is not guilty of murder if
he killed the victim while asleep or in the clouded state between sleeping and walking." Even
assuming that "the conduct of a sleepwalker may be purposive (though not recollected on
waking), and may be regarded as expressing unconscious desire," it is nonetheless undoubt-
edly sound not to impose liability for an unconscious desire which is manifested in this way.
See, Criminal Law, pg. 180.

2.

3.

(B) As noted previously, Criminal Law questions on the MBE are becoming increasingly
more "tricky." Here, for example, is a problem dealing with the  mens rea requirement of
knowledge.  The New Mexico statute provides that a person must "knowingly possess, sell or
transport narcotics." The facts further state that Pat did not actually know that the contents of
the package contained narcotics. Thus, many students will be "suckered" into choosing choice
(C). However, LaFave states that in cases of "wilful blindness" where the defendant is delib-
erately ignorant of certain facts, then he or she can be held criminally liable. Illustrative is  U.S.
v. Jewell, 532 F. 2d 697(1976), where the evidence was that the defendant was paid $100 to
drive a truck with a secret compartment into the United States from Mexico and that he delib-
erately refrained from looking into the compartment and ascertaining there were drugs inside.
The Supreme Court concluded that the defendant's "wilful blindness" was sufficiently culpa-
ble to "where it can almost be said that he actually knew" that drugs were present.

(D) By process of elimination, choice (D) is the correct answer. The crime of bigamy
is defined as marrying of another when one has a husband or wife living. It is a statutory
crime. Like statutory rape, bigamy is a strict liability crime, whereby culpability is
imposed merely for doing the act which is prohibited by statute. No mens rea is required.
Therefore, mistake is no defense. In the area of mistake, students should be aware that mis-
take of fact may be a defense where it negates the existence of a mental state required to
establish a material element of the crime. In general, mistake of fact may negate a  "gen-
eral intent" crime only where it is reasonable, or a "specific intent" crime, whether it is
reasonable or unreasonable. On the other hand,  mistake of law  (i.e., where the defendant
is unaware that his acts are criminally proscribed) is generally no defense. In choices (A)
and (C), defendant's mistake negates a material element of a "specific intent" crime and
is therefore a valid defense. In choice (B), defendant's mistake would probably be valid
grounds to mitigate the charge of murder to voluntary manslaughter.

pble

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1	

CRIMINAL LAW

Multistate Criminal Law Variations:

Barrow, Stern and Larkin were roommates at
Fremont College in Boston. During their Thanks-
giving vacation, Barrow and Stern drove to New York
City to visit relatives. While in New York, Stern was
injured in an automobile accident. As a consequence,
she couldn't return to Boston with Barrow. The day
that Barrow was to drive back to college Stern asked
her if she would deliver a package to Larkin. Barrow
agreed and Stern gave her a small package which
Barrow placed in her glove compartment.

While driving through Connecticut, Barrow was
stopped for speeding. When the state trooper asked
Barrow for her license and registration, she reached
into the glove compartment. As she did, the package
which Stern had given her fell onto the floor. When it
hit the floor, the box broke open and a plastic envelope
containing a white substance slid out. Seeing that the
substance appeared to be cocaine, the state trooper
arrested Barrow for possession of illegal narcotics
under a state statute making it a felony to "wilfully
possess" a controlled dangerous substance. The pack-
age did, in fact, contain cocaine.

1. If Barrow is later brought to trial for this charge,

her best defense is that
(A) Barrow didn't know what was in the package
(B) Stern didn't tell her she was carrying illegal

narcotics
the package didn't belong to her
the cocaine was illegally seized

(C)
(D)

Answer: (A)

Drip purchased a used 1978 Oldsmobile convertible
from Geek for $750. Their sales agreement provided
that Geek was selling the car in an "as is" condition.
Two days later Drip was cleaning the auto when he
noticed a sealed envelope in the glove compartment.
He opened the envelope and discovered it contained a
small amount of hashish, a narcotic that is smoked,
chewed or drunk for its intoxicating effect. Drip
immediately telephoned Geek and told her what he
had found. Geek indicated that the hash was in fact
hers and asked Drip if he would hold on to it for a cou-
ple of days until she could pick it up. Drip reluctantly
agreed. Drip then wrote Geek's name on the envelope
and placed it back in the glove compartment. The next
day Drip was driving the car when he was stopped by
the police for speeding. He was then asked to produce
the registration for the vehicle. As he opened the glove
compartment, the hashish fell out of the envelope. It
was seen by the officer who promptly arrested Drip
and charged him with violating a statute which pro-
hibited the "willful and unlawful possession of a con-
trolled dangerous substance."

2. At Drip's trial, Geek testified that the hashish was
really hers and not Drip's. She further noted that
she forgot to remove the hashish from the glove
compartment when she sold the car to Drip. If the
jury believes Geek, Drip should be found
(A) not guilty, because he did not willfully acquire
the hashish and hence committed no crime
(B) not guilty, because he was not the true owner

of the hashish

(C) guilty, because he knowingly possessed the

hashish

(D) guilty, because he acquired the hashish when
he intentionally purchased the car from Geek
in an "as is" condition

Answer: (C)

CRIMINAL LAW

2

pmabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

4.	

(C)	
Larceny at common law may be defined as the (1) trespassory (2) taking and (3) car-
rying away of the (4) personal property (5) of another (6) with intent to steal it. Students must
be advised that the crime of larceny requires an intent to steal, that is, an intent to deprive the
owner of the possession of his (or her) property permanently or for an unreasonable length of
time. Here, Pickney did not possess an intent to steal (i.e., no  animus furandi). As a result,
answer choice (C) is correct.

CRIMINAL LAW

Multistate Nuance Chart

LARCENY

EMBEZZLEMENT

1.

2.

trespassory taking and carrying away the
property of another
requires only a taking and an asportation

3. moving the property a short distance (i.e., the

asportation) will do

requires an intent to steal (or, as stated in
Latin, an animus furandi) which must concur
with the larcenous conduct

1. property must be in the embezzler's lawful

possession when he misappropriates it
requires a conversion (i.e., a serious act of
interference with the owner's rights)

the mere act of moving the property a short dis-
tance (the asportation for larceny) will not do
requires a specific intent to defraud

2.

3.

4.

(B) In picking the "best" answer on any given Multistate problem, always try to identify the
issue being tested. Here, for example, is a Criminal Law question dealing with self-defense. As a
general rule, one who is not the aggressor is justified in using a reasonable amount of force against
his adversary when he reasonably believes (a) that he is in immediate danger of unlawful bod-
ily harm from his adversary and (b) that the use of such force is necessary to avoid this danger.
Likewise, deadly force is justified when an individual is threatened with serious bodily injury or
death. Note that (A) is not the best answer because it does not specifically address Sammy's belief
that his life was in danger. Although Vernon had his gun drawn, that fact standing alone does not
necessarily put Sammy's life in danger. On the contrary, choice (B) is a better answer because it
does state that Sammy believed his life to be in danger, which is a necessary element of
self-defense.

(B) Arson is defined as the malicious burning of the dwelling house of another.  By def-
inition arson is a "general intent" crime because it does not require a specific mental state of
intent. As a general rule, voluntary intoxication is no defense for a "general intent" crime.
Therefore, choice (B) is correct.

GENERAL INTENT CRIMES

SPECIFIC INTENT CRIMES

1. Rape
2. Battery
3. Arson
4.
5.
6.

Involuntary Manslaughter
"Depraved Heart" Murder
Indecent Exposure

1. Burglary
2. Larceny
3. Robbery
4. Voluntary Manslaughter
5.
Premeditated Murder
6. Attempt
7. Conspiracy
8. Assault
9. False Pretenses
10. Embezzlement

4.

5.

6.

pstabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3

- CRIMINAL LAW

tw

7.

8.

(B) The traditional M'Naghten test  provides that a defendant is entitled to acquittal  "if
at the time of committing the act, the party accused was laboring under such a defect of
reason, from disease of the mind, as not to know the nature and quality of the act that
he was doing, or if he did know it, he did not know what he was doing was wrong."  Note
that statement I will not provide a valid defense under M'Naghten. If the defendant suffers
from delusions (or false beliefs), it is necessary to determine whether (if the facts had been
as he believed them to be), his actions would have been criminal. Here, Defendant was not
legally justified to fire a gun at the "shadow". Since his actions were, in fact, criminal, he
cannot avail himself of the M'Naghten defense. Also, statement III will not provide a valid
defense because under the M'Naghten rule, it is irrelevant that the defendant is unable to
control his actions. Loss of control because of mental illness is no defense. On the con-
trary, statement II would provide a valid insanity defense because when a person is oper-
ating under an insane delusion, LaFave points out that "he must be considered in the same
situation as to responsibility as if the facts with respect to which the delusion exists were
real." Thus, for example, if under the influence of his delusion, the defendant believes that
another person is attempting to take away his life, and he kills that man supposedly in self-
defense, he would be exempt from punishment. Criminal Law, pg. 316.

(A) Choice (A) is not accurate and therefore the correct answer choice. The defense of
entrapment is not a constitutional defense, and states are at liability to limit its application.
United States v. Russell,  411 U.S. 423, 432 (1973) (referring to the "nonconstitutional
defense of entrapment"). Choice (B) is an accurate statement and therefore incorrect. In
Matthew v. United States,  485 U.S. 58 (1988), the Supreme Court ruled that, in federal
prosecutions, even if the defendant denies one or more elements of the crime, he is enti-
tled to an entrapment instruction whenever there is sufficient evidence a jury could find
entrapment. Choice (C) is also an accurate statement and therefore incorrect. Entrapment
by estoppel is a valid defense in most jurisdictions, even though it is a narrow exception
to the rule that ignorance of the law is no defense. The entrapment by estoppel defense
applies where a government official assures a defendant that certain conduct is legal, and
the defendant reasonably relies on that advice and engages in that conduct. To establish
this defense, a defendant must show (1) a government official told him the act was legal,
(2) defendant relied on this advice, (3) the reliance was reasonable and (4) that a prosecu-
tion would be unfair. See, 22 C.J.S. Criminal Law § 78 (Entrapment by Estoppel) (2007).
One of the leading cases is United States v. Batterie,  361 F. 3d 1210 (9th Cir. 2004), where
the court ruled that an alien, who truthfully disclosed all information on a form promul-
gated by the ATF, had been wrongfully advised by a federally licensed firearms dealer that
he could buy a gun based on his status as a non-immigrant alien and would not be prose-
cuted for illegal possession of a firearm, was entitled to an entrapment by estoppel defense.
Choice (D) is an accurate statement and therefore incorrect. In  United States v. Russell,
411 U.S. 423 (1973), the Supreme Court rejected an entrapment defense where the gov-
ernment supplied an essential chemical to be used in an illegal manufacturing enterprise.
Subsequently, the Supreme Court ruled that where the Government has induced a defen-
dant to break the law and the defense raises the issue of entrapment, the prosecution must
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant had a predisposition to commit the
offense prior to first being approached by a government agent.  Jacobson v. United States,
503 U.S. 540 (1991). Note that a slight majority of states requires the defendant to prove
entrapment by a preponderance of evidence. 52 A.L.R. 4th 775.

9. (A) LaFave points out that intentional death may be "effectively brought about by an
omission to act." One is not guilty of murder for intentionally killing by failure to act, how-
ever, unless the circumstances are such that there is a duty to act. A typical example of the
duty to act is the duty of a parent to rescue her imperiled infant, like one who is drowning
face-down in the bathtub, lacking the ability to extricate itself from its difficulty. Failure

CRIMINAL LAW	

4

pirsehe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

10.

11.

12.

to rescue would be murder if parent intends to kill the child, either by desiring the death
or, without wishing for death, knowing that death is substantially sure to result from fail-
ure to rescue. Criminal Law, pg. 539. Similarly, the common law imposes an affirmative
duty upon a husband to aid his wife (and vice versa). In the case of  Territory v. Manton,
19 P. 387 (1888), a husband who left his intoxicated wife out in the snow was found guilty
of murder for her death.

(D) Choice (A) is an example of intent-to-inflict serious bodily injury murder. Choice (B)
is an example of "depraved-heart" murder. Choice (C) is an example of felony murder.
Conversely, choice (D) is characteristic of involuntary manslaughter or misdemeanor-
manslaughter. Note that Defendant committed a battery (which at common law was a misde-
meanor) by pushing victim into the pool.

(B) Choice (B) is the correct answer. Malice aforethought does not require an intent to
kill. "Malice" at common law may consist of any of four states of mind: (1) felony-murder,
(2) intent to kill type malice, (3) extreme reckless conduct likely to cause death or serious
injury, or (4) intent to cause serious bodily injury which results in death. In this question,
Defendant intended to cause serious injury to Victim which resulted in his death. Defendant
may properly be convicted of second-degree murder (not first-degree). Choice (C) is wrong
even if Defendant was unaware of Victim's medical condition, because he intended to cause
serious injury. Choice (D) is wrong because in heat of passion killing, to qualify as
manslaughter, requires inter alia that the provocation be adequate, i.e., cause a reasonable per-
son to lose self-control under the circumstances. Defendant's loss of control here would not
seem to qualify as reasonable.

(C) This question presents the difficult concept of what standard the court should use for
a defendant in a criminal case to determine adequacy of provocation as a basis for mitigating
murder to manslaughter. Formerly, the fact that the defendant possessed some peculiar phys-
ical or mental characteristic was uniformly held not to be considered in determining provoca-
tion (i.e., head injury, sunstroke, sexual impotence). The test was how the victim's conduct
affected a reasonable man, not how it affected a man with the defendant's physical character-
istics. LaFave and Scott, Criminal Law, p. 578. Modernly, however, the strictly objective rea-
sonable man test for determining adequacy of provocation has been considerably broadened.
Under the Model Penal Code, at least some individual peculiarities should be taken into
account "because they bear upon the inference as to the actor's character that is fair to draw
upon as the basis of his act." Model Penal Code, Sec. 20.3 Comment. As a professional ten-
nis player, Jimbo's Achilles tendon injury was particularly significant, both emotionally and
financially, because it could threaten his entire career. Therefore, such a physical condition
should be considered by the court. Furthermore, the provocation required for voluntary
manslaughter must be that which will arouse a heat of passion in a reasonable  sober man. A
defendant's voluntary intoxication which unreasonably provokes him to lose his self-control
will not reduce homicide to manslaughter. LaFave and Scott,  Criminal Law, p. 347.
Therefore, Jimbo will be judged as a professional tennis player with an Achilles tendon injury
who is not intoxicated. Choice (C) is correct.

13.

(D) By process of elimination, choice (A) is wrong because double jeopardy bars re-
prosecution for the (same) offense after there has been a final judgment. Yancy and
Yolanda were originally prosecuted for the misdemeanor of furnishing liquor to a minor.
Subsequently, the defendants were charged with involuntary manslaughter. Since these two
offenses are not identical (inasmuch as each requires proof of an additional fact which the
other does not), double jeopardy will not apply. Choice (B) is wrong because  res judicata
relates to civil cases and bars re-litigation of a claim (e.g., negligence) after a final judg-
ment. Choice (C) is wrong because  collateral estoppel stands for "issue preclusion." Once

pstabv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

CRIMINAL LAW

14.

15.

16.

17.

an issue (such as defendant's identity) has been litigated, the same issue cannot be litigat-
ed again by the same parties. Therefore, choice (D) is the best answer simply by process
of elimination.

(B) This is a truly "classic" Multistate question dealing with murder. There are four
types of murder: (1) intentional killing with premeditation or deliberation; (2) intent to
inflict serious bodily injury; (3) felony-murder; and (4) depraved-heart (or reckless killing)
murder. On the July, 2003 MBE a similar type of intent to inflict serious bodily injury
murder was tested. Note that Ramirez intended to inflict serious bodily injury when he
deliberately shot Belle in the arm. Choice (A) is wrong because in order to convict a per-
son of felony-murder, the underlying felony must be malum in se or an inherently dan-
gerous felony. Defrauding an insurance company is malum prohibitum and does not
involve a danger to life.

(C) Robbery is generally defined as the trespassory taking and carrying away of the per-
sonal property of another with the intent to permanently deprive the owner, whereby (1) the
taking of the property is from the person of the victim or in his presence, and (2) the taking is
accomplished by means of violence or intimidation. La Fave,  Criminal Law, p. 692. If Justin
is prosecuted for felony-murder and acquitted, his acquittal will most likely be based on the
fact that no robbery occurred. Choice (C) is correct. Note that choice (C) is a better answer
than either (A) or (B) because if the underlying felony did not occur, then there is no crimi-
nal liability for felony-murder. Also, choice  (D) is not the best answer because robbery sim-
ply requires that the victim be placed in fear or intimidated. Even where the defendant uses
an unloaded gun or toy pistol, he may nevertheless be guilty of robbery if the victim was
placed in fear or apprehension. However, on a recent MBE, students were required to know
that aggravated robbery does require the robber to be armed with a "dangerous" or "deadly"
weapon.

(B) Here is another example of  depraved-heart murder, which is usually defined as
second degree murder. In accordance with the statutory definition, second degree murder
"covers all other unlawful killings with express or implied malice aforethought."  To be
sure, many students will be inclined to choose (C) under the wrongful assumption that
Skakel did not act with malice. Although he may not have acted with express malice, his
conduct involved implied malice. Originally, at early common law (around the year 1550)
murder was defined by statute as a premeditated intent to kill (which is the literal mean-
ing of "malice aforethought"). However, after 1550, new types of murder were classified
to include killings without premeditation, such as felony-murder and depraved-heart mur-
der. Today, modern courts and legislatures still frequently define murder in terms of  "mal-
ice aforethought, express or implied" which now cover all four types of murder: (1) intent
to kill murder; (2) felony-murder; (3) depraved-heart murder; and (4) intent-to-do-serious-
bodily-injury murder. LaFave, pg. 529. Choice (B) is correct because implied malice is
found in depraved-heart murder despite the fact that it is an unintentional killing.

(A) For the crime of solicitation to be completed, it is only necessary that the actor, with
intent that another person commit a crime, have enticed, advised, incited, ordered or otherwise
encouraged that person to commit a crime. The crime solicited need not be committed.
LaFave notes that it is not a defense to a solicitation charge that, unknown to the solicitor, the
person solicited could not commit the crime.  Criminal Law, pg. 422. Similarly, it is also no
defense that the person solicited is an undercover agent and under no circumstances would
have committed the crime solicited. See  State v. Davis, 319 Mo. 1222, 6 S.W. 2d 609 (1928).
It is important to point out that Wife is not guilty of conspiracy because an essential element
of the crime is an agreement (for an unlawful purpose) between two or more persons. For
example, assume that A wants to burglarize a store and thus approaches B to solicit his assis-

CRIMINAL LAW	

6

pssibse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

tance in the commission of the crime, that upon hearing A's plan B manifests his complete
concurrence in the scheme and expresses his willingness to participate, but that B secretly
intends not to go through with the plan and has merely feigned agreement because he wishes
to trap A. Under these circumstances there is no conspiracy because there is no agreement
since B obviously does not have the required intent-to-burglarize mental state. Although A has
the requisite mental state, he may not be convicted of conspiracy because there has been no
agreement and thus no criminal act. LaFave, pg. 459.

18. (C) Students should be aware that Speedster is charged with  attempted murder.  LaFave
and Scott in their Handbook on Criminal Law point out that the crime of attempt consists
of: (1) an intent to do an act or to bring about certain consequences which would in law
amount to a crime; and (2) an act in furtherance of that intent which, as it is most commonly
put, goes beyond mere preparation. As such, attempt is a specific intent crime. Since the
defendant in this example did not have the (specific) intent to kill Lisa, he would be found not
guilty of the inchoate crime of attempted  murder.

Multistate Variation:

Assume the Examiners change the facts in two subtle ways. First, Lisa is killed and Speedster
is charged with murder  rather than attempted murder. Under these circumstances, he could
be found guilty of "depraved-heart" murder because he was driving his auto at 100 miles per
hour in a residential area. Clearly, this would constitute extremely negligent conduct which
creates not only an unjustifiable but also a very high degree of risk of death.

SOLICITATION

INCHOATE CRIMES
CONSPIRACY

ATTEMPT

1. consists of (a) an agreement
between two or more persons
to commit a crime and (b) an
intent to achieve the criminal
objective;

1. consists of (a) an intent to
commit a crime and (b) an
act in furtherance or a "sub-
stantial step" toward the com-
mission of the offense;

1. defendant entices, advises, en-
courages, orders or requests
another to commit a crime;

2. the crime solicited need not be

committed;

3. the crime requires no agree-
ment or action by the person
solicited;

4. defenses: at common law no

defenses were recognized; un-
der Model Penal Code, how-
ever, renunciation is an affir-
mative defense;

2.

the agreement is the "essence"
or "gist" of the crime;

3. unlike attempt, the crime does
not require a "substantial step"
in the commission of the
crime;

4. solicitation merges into con-

spiracy;

5. merges with the target felony.

5.

if the conspiracy is successful,
a conspirator may be subject to
conviction for both the conspir-
acy and the completed crime;

6. defenses: at common

law withdrawal was not a
valid defense; under the
Model Penal Code, however,
withdrawal is recognized as an
affirmative defense if the
defendant "thwarted the suc-
cess of the conspiracy."

2. the act in furtherance of the
crime must go beyond mere
preparation;

3. "specific-intent" crime, i.e., the
defendant must have the spe-
cific intent to commit the
designated crime;

4. defenses: at common law legal
impossibility but not factual
impossibility was a defense to
a charge of attempt; under the
modern view, however, impos-
sibility is no defense when the
defendant's actual intent (not
limited by the true facts un-
known to him) was to do an act
proscribed by law.

posame

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7

CRIMINAL LAW

19.

20.

21.

(B) Criminal attempt requires two elements: (1) specific intent to commit the "target
offense" and (2) a substantial step" in the commission or attempted commission of the crime.
However, this question goes a step further by raising the possible defense of impossibility.
Legal impossibility is a defense to an attempt crime whereas factual impossibility is not.
Choices (C) and (D) are wrong because they are examples of factual impossibility. In each
situation, Defendant was unable to complete the target offense because of the particular facts
applicable to the situation. Legal impossibility is where the defendant intends to accomplish
an act which is not prescribed by law. Choice (B) is an example of legal impossibility. Even
if Wright had succeeded in burning down his own home, he would not be guilty of arson,
which requires the burning of the dwelling of another. Lastily, it should be noted that choice
(A) is incorrect because the defendant, even though he completed the target offense, can be
convicted of attempt so long as he is not charged with both attempt and the target crime at
the same time.

(D) The traditional definition of conspiracy requires the following two elements: (1) an
agreement between two or more persons (which constitutes the act) and (2) an intent to
achieve a criminal or unlawful objective. To constitute conspiracy at common law,  there
must be a combination of two or more guilty persons.  Based on these facts, the "plural-
ity" requirement is not satisfied because Kareem is an innocent party who believed that
he was the true owner of the John Coltrane album. In addition, Elgin never entered into
an agreement with Russell or Kareem but rather intended individually to commit a theft
inside Wilt's home.

(D) This is a tricky conspiracy question focusing on the necessity for an agreement.
There certainly was an agreement between Margo and Tyler. The question is whether
Vinnie was ever a party to that agreement. The comment to Model Penal Code section 5.03
states, "Guilt as a conspirator is measured by the situation as the actor views it; he must
have the purpose of promoting or facilitating a criminal offense, and with that purpose
must agree (or believe that he is agreeing) with another that they will engage in the crim-
inal offense or in solicitation to commit it." The comment goes on to say that one who aids
a conspiracy should be subjected to prosecution and punishment on some theory other than
he has become a member of the conspiracy. Therefore, since Vinnie aided and abetted but
never communicated his agreement to Margo and Tyler, he is not a member of the con-
spiracy. Choice (A) is wrong because the unilateral conspiracy theory followed by the
Model Penal Code applies where the defendant believes he has an agreement but does not.
That is not the situation here. Choice (B) is wrong because, since no conspiracy was ever
formed involving Vinnie, it does not matter whether Margo was acquitted. Choice (C) is
incorrect because there was an agreement between Margo and Tyler, however Vinnie
would not be considered a party to that agreement. Note: the unilateral approach applies
where a defendant believes he has entered into an agreement but actually has not, like in
the situation where a defendant agrees with a feigning accomplice.

22.

(C) This is an extremely difficult Criminal Law question dealing with the defense of with-
drawal. With regard to whether withdrawal is an affirmative defense to conspiracy, the
common law rule is strict and inflexible. Since the crime is complete with the agreement, no
subsequent action can exonerate the conspirator of that crime. Conversely, withdrawal may be
a defense to subsequent crimes committed by the other conspirators. However, in order for
withdrawal to be a defense for subsequent crimes,  notice must be given to all of the other
conspirators. Since Igor did not give notice to Divoc, his withdrawal was ineffective. As a
result, he will be guilty for conspiracy as well as robbery and (felony) murder. Therefore,
choice (C) is correct.

CRIMINAL LAW	

8

pinbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

23.

24.

25.

26.

(D) Charlie is guilty of the theft of the car regardless of his participation in a conspiracy.
Charlie is also guilty of conspiracy to commit robbery even if Baker is a police informant who
lacks the mental state required for a conspiracy. The agreement between Able and Charlie is
sufficient for the unlawful agreement; and the theft of the car is a sufficient overt act in fur-
therance of the agreement. Able is guilty of attempted robbery as he took a substantial step
towards the commission of the robbery (by entering the bank). Therefore, Charlie is also
guilty of attempted robbery under the so-called  "Pinkerton Rule:" all co-conspirators are
liable for all crimes committed by any conspirator in furtherance of the original agreement
(majority view—except not followed in Arizona). See,  Pinkerton v. United States, 328 U.S.
640 (1946). Choice (B) is incorrect because the crime of conspiracy and the subsequent
crimes do not merge (unlike solicitation and attempt which  do merge).

(B) Common law conspiracy only requires proof of an unlawful agreement between two
or more persons—no overt act in furtherance of an agreement is required. Thus, Choice (D)
is incorrect. Under the Pinkerton Doctrine, all conspirators are liable for any crimes commit-
ted in furtherance of the original agreement. Nelson is guilty of attempted robbery, not rob-
bery. Because Jack did not receive possession of the money, only an attempted robbery
occurred here. Thus, Choice (C) is incorrect. Nelson may also be convicted of felony murder
under the Pinkerton Rule. The killing of an innocent person during an inherently dangerous
felony (robbery) is a foreseeable result, and all participants in the underlying felony may be
convicted of felony murder. Thus, choice (A) is incorrect, as Nelson may properly be con-
victed of felony murder.

(D) In order to be guilty as an accomplice, generally two requirements must be met: (1)
the individual must have the intent to promote or facilitate commission of the crime and
(2) he must "aid" and "abet" or give encouragement in the commission or attempted com-
mission of the crime. There is a split of authority as to whether some lesser mental state will
suffice for accomplice liability, such as mere knowledge that one is aiding a crime. The
majority view, however, is that an accomplice must intend that his acts have the effect of
assisting or encouraging another. Here, the facts state that Mitch "feigned agreement." If
Mitch only pretended to agree without actually intending to aid and abet the gang members,
then no accomplice liability will be imposed.

(C) The key words in this question are that Harry "was playing a practical joke on Mr.
Scylla and was trying to scare him." The mental state described by these words falls short of
that necessary under the given Ames Penal Code. The Ames statute requires for assault an
unlawful "attempt" – i.e., an intent plus an act to commit an unlawful application of force
(i.e., a battery). If Harry did not intend to commit any application of force on Mr. Scylla,
which is what the facts state, then, if the jury believes him, he will be not guilty due to lack
of intent to cause physical injury. Therefore, choice (C) is correct. Without a specific intent to
unlawfully apply force, Harry cannot be guilty, so choices (A) and (B) are incorrect. Choice
(D) is incorrect since fright is not required for criminal assault under the given statute.

27. (B) This is an extremely "tricky" Multistate question testing students on the distinction
between solicitation and conspiracy. For the crime of solicitation to be completed, it is only
necessary that the defendant (1) entice, advise, incite, order or otherwise encourage another
person to commit a crime (2) with the intent that the crime be committed. On the other hand,
conspiracy requires an agreement between two or more individuals to commit a criminal
offense. Here, it is important to point out that under the given facts no true agreement actual-
ly occurred. Rather Sissy solicited Lex to recklessly engage in conduct knowing that it would
create a high risk of causing injury to the patrons in the movie theatre. Thus, Sissy and Lex

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

CRIMINAL LAW

28.

29.

would be guilty of battery, but not of conspiracy. Note, too, that choice (D) is wrong because
solicitation merges with the completed crime. Also, choice (A) is incorrect because arson at
common law requires the burning of the dwelling house of another, not a commercial struc-
ture. Furthermore, the fire must cause damage to the structure (e.g., charring) not just a mere
blackening.

(D) This fact pattern presents a very difficult Criminal Law question dealing with con-
spiracy. A conspiracy may be defined as "(1) an agreement between two or more persons,
which constitutes the act; and (2) an intent to thereby achieve a certain objective which under
the common law definition, is the doing of either an unlawful act or a lawful act by unlawful
means." LaFave, Criminal Law, p. 453. Regarding the limits of liability for conspiracy
LaFave states that, "Conspiracy is an offense which continues up to the point of abandonment
or success. Success is not limited to the accomplishment of the criminal objective but may
include subsequent concealment if part of the original agreement". Ibid., pp. 470-471. The
key to this question lies in a careful reading of the words Tucker agreed to: Tucker agreed to
stash the jewels at his house after the robbery  "until the heat's off" Tucker's agreement to
conceal the stolen property was part of the original criminal agreement (prior to Marshall's
commission of the burglary). Therefore, despite his earlier refusal to take part in the burglary,
Tucker is guilty as a conspirator (i.e., guilty of conspiracy to commit burglary and burglary)
as well as an accessory after the fact. Choice (B) is therefore incorrect. Choice (C) is incor-
rect since a conspirator will be liable for all crimes committed in  furtherance of the conspir-
acy, as well as the conspiracy itself. Choice (D) is therefore the correct answer.

(A) This is a very clever Multistate question dealing with the related crimes of larceny,
assault and robbery. Clearly, Gibby is guilty of larceny for the theft of Becky's pocketbook
and groceries. As noted previously, larceny at common law is defined as the (1) trespassory
(2) taking (3) carrying away (4) of the personal property (5) of another (6) with intent to steal.
It is important to note that Gibby is not guilty of assault, which is defined as an unlawful
attempt to commit a battery. Assault is a specific intent crime. The defendant must have the
intent to commit a battery. Did Gibby intend to commit a battery on Becky? The answer is no.
Therefore, choice (B) is wrong. Although Becky was "startled," the facts do not indicate that
Gibby possessed the requisite mens rea to be guilty of criminal assault. Note that choices (C)
and (D) are wrong because robbery requires that the taking be accomplished by means of
force, violence or intimidation. This was not a forceful or violent taking. Moreover, there was
no threat to do harm to the victim.

30. (B) Theft (larceny) consists of the physical movement (asportation) of the property of
another without consent (caption) with intent to steal (or permanently deprive). The crime
is complete once the defendant moves the property (any distance) with the intent to steal.
Change of heart or returning the property after the initial taking is no defense. Thus,
Customer is guilty of theft of the camera. However, Customer is not guilty of theft of the
suntan oil, as she lacked an intent to steal. She "inadvertantly" forgot to pay for the oil.
Her decision to return to the store and pay for the oil is further indication of her lack of
intent to steal. Thus, choices (A), (C) and (D) are incorrect for the reasons stated.

CRIMINAL LAW	

10

pirsaw

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.	

(B)	
When Johnson took the ring to Defendant's pawnshop and borrowed $20 on it upon
condition that Defendant could keep the ring absent repayment within 60 days, a  bailment sit-
uation was created. Defendant was given  lawful possession of the ring, not mere custody.
Defendant's subsequent sale of the ring amounted to a conversion—serious interference with
the owner's rights to his property—sufficient for  embezzlement.  Embezzlement is the fraudu-
lent conversion of the personal property of another by one already in lawful possession.
Choice (B) is therefore correct.

(C)	
Larceny is defined as the trespassory taking and carrying away of the personal prop-
erty of another with the intent to steal it. When Rufus took the case of beer off the truck and
hid it underneath the loading dock, a "taking" and "carrying away" occurred. According to
LaFave, the caption  (taking) requires the securing of dominion over another's property, while
the distance required for the asportation  (carrying away) need not be substantial – a slight dis-
tance will do. LaFave, p. 715. Finally, there must be concurrence  between the defendant's
conduct (actus reus) and the intent to steal (mens rea). At the time Rufus hid the case of beer
he intended to take it home rather than return it to the stock room, Rufus went beyond a mere
attempt, he committed larceny. Choice (C) is correct. Choice (A) is incorrect because at the
time of taking,  Rufus did not intend to return the beer. Restoration in this situation, is no
defense.

(C)	
Choice (A) is wrong because at common law arson consisted of the (1) malicious (or
intentional) (2) burning (3) of a dwelling (4) of another. Here, Perry set fire to Williams' tele-
vision outside his home. Choice (B) is incorrect because Perry did not intend to commit a lar-
ceny or felony at the time he broke into Williams' home. According to the facts, Perry decid-
ed to burn the television (which, in essence, constituted a larceny) after entering Williams'
home. Therefore, choice (C) is the best answer because by burning the television, Perry has
destroyed it thereby permanently depriving Williams of its use.

(B)	
Obviously, Enzo is guilty of conspiracy to commit assault because he entered into an
agreement with Shiller to threaten Rose. Secondly, Enzo committed a larceny by stealing the
watch when he was leaving Rose's home. No burglary occurred because Enzo did not have
the intent to commit a larceny or felony  at the time of the breaking and entering.  His intent
was to commit an assault which at common law was a misdemeanor, not a felony. Likewise,
Enzo is not guilty of robbery because the taking of the watch was not accomplished by force
or violence but occurred as an afterthought to the assault.

(B)	
False pretenses occurs when D tells Victim a (1) lie of a (2) past or present  fact, (not
a future fact or broken promise) which is (3) relied on by the Victim and (4) title to property
passes to D and (5) D has intent to defraud the Victim. Choice (B) is the correct answer. Here
D lied about the friendship with the Victim's boss, his employment and the loss of his wallet.
Victim relied on D's lies and passed title to the property ($100). Choice (A) is larceny by trick.
If D receives only possession of property because of a lie, the crime is larceny by trick, not
false pretenses. Choice (C) is embezzlement. The elements of embezzlement are: (1) D has
lawful possession of the property of another, which (2) D fraudulently converts, (3) with intent
to defraud. In choice (C), D obtained lawful possession when he rented the motorcycle. Later,
he sold it to Stranger which is the conversion element. A lie by a Defendant after acquiring
possession or title to the property cannot be larceny by trick or false pretenses. Choice (D) is
larceny. Here D did not lie to acquire possession or title to the gasoline, and did not acquire
lawful possession before he stole it.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

CRIMINAL LAW

36.

37.

38.

39.

(C) For the crime of solicitation to be committed, it is only necessary that the defendant
(with the requisite intent) have enticed, advised, incited, ordered or otherwise encouraged
another person to commit a crime. LaFave points out that in situations such as these where the
soliciting party would not be held guilty of the completed crime (if it were committed as a
result of the solicitation), the act of soliciting is itself not criminal. Criminal Law, pg. 493.
Since Blake was not actually selling narcotics, he cannot be guilty of solicitation. Therefore,
choices (A) and (D) are wrong. Also, choice (B) is incorrect because in  United States v.
Oviedo, 525 F. 2d 881 (1976) the Court held that legal impossibility precluded a defendant
from being guilty of attempted sale of heroin which turned out to be a non-narcotic substance.
Therefore, choice (C) is the best answer if Blake intended to defraud Yosi by selling him
oregano instead of marijuana.

(A) Always remember the best way to answer Multistate questions is by process of
elimination, especially when the correct "pick" isn't obvious (which is usually the case).
Choice (B) is wrong because embezzlement covers the misappropriation of either per-
sonal or real property. Embezzlement is broader than larceny which at common law was
limited to the theft of personal property. Nonetheless, Millie is not guilty of embezzlement
because we are dealing with a child, not personal or real property. Likewise, choice (D) is
incorrect because the original English  false pretenses statute covered only "money, goods,
wares or merchandise," and thus was limited to tangible personal property and money. By
the same token, Millie is not guilty of kidnapping, which is the forcible abduction of a per-
son. Since we are not dealing with abduction by force, choice (C) is incorrect. Therefore,
by process of elimination (A) is the best choice.

(D) Any jury instruction that creates a presumption of an element of a crime is unconsti-
tutional, as a denial of due process, because it shifts the burden of proof to the defendant. The
prosecution must prove every element of a charged crime beyond a reasonable doubt, which
cannot be shifted to the defendant. See, e.g. Sandstrom v. Montana, 442 U.S. 510 (1979).
Francis v. Franklin, 471 U.S. 307 (1985). Choice (A) is incorrect because this statute is not a
strict liability crime, because the defendant must "know" the sexual partner is under age 16.
Choice (B) is incorrect. The statute does not require or impart any legal duty to ascertain a sex
partner's age. Choice (C) is not the best choice. Whether Doofus "knowingly" had intercourse
with an underage partner (Bunny) is ultimately a jury question. Thus, choice (D) is correct by
elimination.

(D) There is no constitutional right to a jury trial for petty offenses, but only for serious
offenses, e.g., felonies. For purposes of the right to a jury trial, an offense is serious if impris-
onment for more than six months is authorized. Since the maximum imprisonment was seven
months, Piggy would be entitled to a jury trial. By the same token, a defendant has a right to
counsel for misdemeanor offenses if there is the possibility of imprisonment. According to the
holding in Alabama v. Shelton,  122 S. Ct. 1784 (2002), a suspended sentence that may end up
in the actual deprivation of a person's liberty (i.e., imprisonment) may not be imposed under
the Sixth Amendment unless the indigent defendant was provided the assistance of counsel in
the prosecution of the crime charged. Choice (D) is the best answer because the judge's
instruction was incorrect with respect to both the right to a jury trial and the right to counsel.

CRIMINAL LAW	

12

pmebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

40.

41.

(C) A commonly tested area on the Multistate Exam is that of  standing, both in
Constitutional Law, as well as in Criminal Procedure. In Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U.S. 128 (1978)
a passenger who had no property interest in an automobile was held not to have standing to
challenge a search of the vehicle as to items seized from it. This decision is founded on the
principle of no reasonable expectation of privacy. To have Fourth Amendment standing, a per-
son must show that his own rights were violated. Standing is proper if a person  owns or has
a right to possession of the place or thing searched, or if the place searched is the person's
home. Since Morgan, not Defendant, owned the car, Defendant has no standing to object to
the search. Choice (C) is therefore correct. Students should note further that  Rakas held that
being "legitimately on the premises" is insufficient grounds to assert standing by itself, with-
out proof of some possessory interest. Also, note that testimony given by the defendant to
assert standing may not be admitted substantively against him at trial  [Simmons v. United
States, 390 U.S. 377 (1968)].

(C) This question presents a fine-line hornbook distinction in Criminal Procedure dealing
with inventory searches. When an arrested person has been detained at a police station he may
be subjected to a rather complete search of his person, either incident to lawful arrest or as an
inventory incident to his booking into jail. An inventory is considered a search for Fourth
Amendment purposes and is generally upheld since it protects the arrestee's property, and also
protects the police from claims of not properly safeguarding the arrestee's property.
Specifically, the issue presented is whether the arrestee's person and effects may be searched
during incarceration. An inventory of all the defendant's items done contemporaneously with
the booking is permissible. Rowdy was booked late at night, and while in custody at some
time before his arraignment the next morning, the police, acting on a tip, discovered the dia-
mond ring identified in the burglary. Such a search incident to an inventory was proper, so
Rowdy's motion to exclude will be denied. Choice (C) is correct. Choice (D) is incorrect
because it does not represent the majority view and applies only if the arrestee has no priva-
cy interest in the effects being held for him. Under the prevailing view of  United States v.
Edwards (1974), the police have "custody" of a prisoner's property during the incarceration
and they may reasonably do so during the entire incarceration period whatever "they were
entitled to do incident to the usual custodial arrest and incarceration." LaFave, p. 149.

42. (B) A search occurs whenever the government infringes on a person's reasonable
expectation of privacy; a privacy expectation that society is prepared to recognize as rea-
sonable. U.S. v Jacobsen, 466 U.S. 109, 113 (1984). In Illinois v. Caballes, 543 U.S. 405
(2005), the Supreme Court ruled that a dog sniff of the exterior of a car during a lawful
traffic stop is not a "search" because of the limited intrusion by the dog. The result is that
neither consent by the owner of the vehicle nor reasonable suspicion of drugs is required
provided (1) the stop of the vehicle is lawful, and (2) the stop is not "prolonged beyond the
time reasonably required to complete the mission." In short, government "conduct that
does not compromise any legitimate interest in privacy is not a search subject to the Fourth
Amendment; any interest in possessing contraband cannot be deemed 'legitimate' ."
Caballes at 407. See also, U.S. v Place 462 U.S. 696 (1983), (sniff by well-trained nar-
cotics detection dog of luggage at airport held, no search). Thus, choices (A), (C), and (D)
are incorrect. Choice (B) is based on  Kyllo v. U.S.  523 U.S. 27 (2001), where the Supreme
Court ruled that the use of a thermal-imaging device to detect the growth of marijuana in
a home constituted an unlawful search. The distinguishing feature between  Kyllo  and
Caballes is that Kyllo  involved a search of a house, but  Caballes involved a search of a
vehicle lawfully stopped on a public street. In addition, see:  Smith v. Maryland,  442 U.S.
735 (1979), (police examination of defendant's telephone records to determine numbers
dialed, held not a search compromising a person's reasonable expectation of privacy); and
U.S. v. Jacobsen, 466 U.S. 109 (1984) (subjecting suspected substance to a chemical field
test for the presence of contraband, held no search, if the substance has lawfully been
seized). Thus, only choice (B) is a "search" under the Fourth Amendment. (Kyllo).

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

CRIMINAL LAW

43.

44.

45.

46.

(B) According to the "open fields" doctrine, any unoccupied or undeveloped area outside
of the curtilage (even if fenced or posted with no trespassing signs, such as wooded areas,
desert, vacant lots in urban areas, open beaches, reservoirs, and open waters) is  not afforded
Fourth Amendment protection. Specifically, it was held to be no search to engage in aerial
photography of the outdoor areas of a large fenced-in industrial complex. See Dow Chemical
Co. v. United States,  90 L.Ed. 2d 226 (1986). Furthermore, use of police aircraft flying over
defendant's home and observing marijuana plants growing within the fenced curtilage was
held to be no search since the plants were readily discernable to the naked eye within a pub-
lic navigable airspace [California v. Ciraolo, 90 L. Ed. 2d 210 (1986)]. Choice (A) is wrong
because based upon the Dow Chemical and Ciraolo decisions, the conduct of the police was
not unlawful. Choice (C) is likewise incorrect because the marijuana was not the "fruit" of an
illegal search and seizure. Choice (D) is wrong because the police could enter Dumpor's farm
without a warrant since it was an "open field." Although the "open fields" doctrine was reaf-
firmed by the U.S. Supreme Court in Oliver v. United States,  104 S. Ct. 1735 (1984), the dis-
senting Justices stated that "private land marked in a fashion sufficient to render entry there-
on a criminal trespass under the law of the state in which the land lies, is protected by the
Fourth Amendment's proscription of unreasonable searches and seizures."

(D) The consent search exception to the Fourth Amendment warrant requirement is being
tested here. Any person with an apparent equal right to use or occupy the property may
consent to a search and any evidence found may be used against the occupants. See
U.S. v. Matlock  415 U.S. 164 (1973). For third party consent, joint access and control of the
premises is required. In our problem first and foremost, did Avis have authority "in her own
right" to allow the police to search her mother's bedroom? The answer is no. Although the
child may have had the apparent authority to permit the police to search common areas of the
home (e.g. living room or kitchen), Avis clearly did not have authority to allow the police to
search her mother's bedroom. Moreover, since Agnes locked the bedroom door, she did  not
assume the risk that her daughter would gain entry.

(B) It is important to note that under the holding in New York v. Belton,  453 U.S. 454
(1981), the search of an automobile incident to an arrest is generally permissible. Note,
however, the police are not justified in searching an automobile when the driver merely
receives a citation at the scene. There is disagreement as to whether  Belton also means the
search must be made before the arrestee is taken from the scene, but clearly it is unneces-
sary that he have continuing access to the car. Thus, LaFave states  "a search of a vehicle
under Belton is permissible even after the defendant has been removed from the car,
handcuffed and placed in a squad car, and even if he is in the custody of several offi-
cers." Criminal Procedure, pg. 203. The term "passenger compartment" in  Belton has
been construed to mean all areas reachable without exiting the vehicle, without regard to
the likelihood that such reaching actually occurred in the particular case.

(D) In United States v. Chadwick,  97 S.Ct. 2476 (1977), three persons were arrested for
transportation of marijuana, following which the police seized and later searched without a
warrant a double-locked footlocker which had just been put into the trunk of a car belonging
to one of the defendants. The Court declined to uphold the search, reasoning that vehicles have
a "diminished expectation of privacy" but that the footlocker did not because it was not open
to public view and it was "intended as a repository of personal effects." However, in
California v. Acevedo,  500 U.S. 565 (1991), the Supreme Court limited the breadth of
Chadwick and held that police may search an automobile and the containers within where they
have probable cause to believe contraband or evidence is contained. Accordingly in United
States v. Ross,  102 S.Ct. 2157 (1982), the Court held that if "probable cause justifies the
search of a lawfully stopped vehicle, it justifies the search of every part of the vehicle and its
contents that may conceal the object of the search." Based upon the given facts, since the
police had probable cause to search the entire vehicle for drugs, the police may lawfully
search both the toolcase and the glove compartment.

CRIMINAL LAW	

14

pueblo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

47.

48.

(C) Many students will be inclined to choose either (A) or (B) thinking that the prosecu-
tion cannot comment on defendant's silence in closing arguments. Though that is generally
true, there is one important exception. In  Fletcher v. Weir, 455 U.S. 231 (1980), the court held
that if a defendant had not been given Miranda warnings, then the prosecution for impeach-
ment may comment on defendant's pre-arrest silence. The Court explained that this was not
"a case where the government had induced silence by implicitly assuring the defendant that
his silence would not be used against him."

(C) The Miranda right to silence can be waived either expressly or impliedly.  Miranda
waiver is based on voluntariness as determined by the "totality of circumstances." To deter-
mine if a knowing and intelligent waiver has occurred, the Court views both the (1)  compe-
tence of the defendant, i.e., age, experience, intelligence, and ability to fully understand the
warnings, and (2) the conduct of the police, namely as to whether there has been overreach-
ing. In the present example, choice (A) is wrong because defendants have generally been
unsuccessful in claiming that their Miranda waivers should be held invalid because they were
either intoxicated or under the influence of drugs or medication at that time. Likewise, choice
(B) is wrong inasmuch as the "personal characteristics of the defendant existing at the time of
the purported waiver are relevant only as they relate to police overreaching." See  Colorado v.
Connelly, 107 S.Ct. 515 (1986), where the Court rejected a state court ruling that a defendant's
Miranda waiver was not voluntary because he suffered from a psychosis that interfered with
his ability to make free and rational choices. The Court concluded that  "Miranda protects
defendants against government coercion but goes no further than that." As a result, choice (C)
is the best answer because Defendant was subjected to persistent questioning for two hours
before waiving his Miranda rights. According to LaFave, courts have held waivers invalid
where the defendant had been held in custody an extended period of time before being given
the warnings, or where the defendant had first been subjected to persistent questioning. Lastly,
choice (D) is incorrect because in Fare v. Michael C., 442 U.S. 707 (1979), the Court held that
a juvenile's request to have his probation officer present was not a per se invocation of
Miranda rights.

49. (B) The Massiah rule prohibits the police from using deliberate efforts to acquire incrimi-
nating information from a suspect who has been formally charged, unless the suspect's attor-
ney is present or the right to counsel has been waived. Here, Dave had been formally charged
and the police placed an informant in Dave's call with specific instruction to acquire informa-
tion from Dave about the charged crime. The fact that Innis was told not to question Dave is
insufficient because he purposely engaged Dave in conversation and bragged about his own
crimes intending to induce Dave to make incriminating statements. Since Dave's attorney was
not present, his Sixth Amendment right to counsel was violated. Choice (A) is not the best
choice. The Massiah rule protects the right to counsel, not the right to avoid self-incrimination.
There are no facts to suggest coercion or that any custodial interrogation took place. Choice (C)
is not the best choice. The fact that Dave received Miranda warnings does not render his state-
ments admissible. Quite the contrary, Dave requested counsel. Thus, he is entitled to have
counsel present during all critical stages of the criminal process. This includes the right to have
counsel present during all attempts by the police to elicit incriminating information from him
after formal charges. Once Dave had been arraigned (a formal charge), he cannot be subjected
to deliberate attempts by police agents to acquire incriminating statements from him without
his counsel being present. Choice (D) is not the best choice. Actual interrogation is not neces-
sary in order for police activity to violate the Massiah rule. The Supreme Court has ruled that
statements acquired from criminal defendants awaiting trial (after formal charges—indictment,
arraignment, etc.), are inadmissible when the police place an informant in the cell who active-
ly induces incriminating responses from the defendant. Maine v. Moulton  (1985). There need
not be actual questioning, just some activity deliberately designed to elicit incriminating state-
ments (Compare Kuhlmann v. Wilson  (1986) [Cellmate informant's testimony admissible
because informant made only one remark and was merely a passive listener]).

posabze

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15	

CRIMINAL LAW

50. (D) The Fifth Amendment right to be free from double jeopardy for the same offense
prohibits retrial after a determination on the merits. In United States v. Scott, 437 U.S. 82
(1978), the Court held that "the defendant, by deliberately choosing to seek termination of
the proceedings against him on a basis unrelated to factual guilt or innocence of the
offense of which he is accused, suffers no injury cognizable under the Double Jeopardy
Clause if the Government is permitted to appeal from such a ruling of the trial court in
favor of the defendant." LaFave and Israel, Criminal Procedure, p. 910. Thus, the gener-
al rule is that reprosecution following dismissal by the judge upon the defendant's motion
which does not constitute an acquittal on the merits is not prohibited by the Double
Jeopardy Clause. In these facts, O'Teen's motion for dismissal at the first trial was grant-
ed by the judge based on an equal protection violation, not on any factual element of the
statutory offense charged. Hence, no double jeopardy has attached to bar O'Teen's munic-
ipal prosecution. Choice (A) is incorrect Therefore, O'Teen's motion to dismiss at the sec-
ond trial will be denied. Choice (D) properly states the correct rationale. Choice (B) is
incorrect because collateral estoppel bars retrial of issues that have been actually litigated.
O'Teen's first trial ended in dismissal without litigating any factual issues now being
raised at the second trial. Choice (C) is incorrect because the separate sovereignties doc-
trine does not apply to trials by a state and by its municipalities.

Multistate "Double Jeopardy" Variations:

Elvis and his girlfriend Priscilla broke into Bobby's
house late at night with the intent to steal his stereo
system. Although they beleived that Bobby was away
on a business trip, actually he was asleep in an upstairs
bedroom. While they were inside the house, Priscilla
announced that she had changed her mind and urged
Elvis to leave.

Bobby who was awakened by the noise downstairs,
descended the staircase to investigate. Upon seeing
Bobby, Priscilla again urged Elvis to flee. Instead,
Elvis attacked Bobby and then tied him up with rope.
thereupon, Elvis and Priscilla departed with Bobby's
stereo equipment. After they left, Bobby choked to
death from the ropes while trying to free himself.

Priscilla and Elvis were charged with burglary but
were acquitted. Thereafter, Priscilla and Elvis were
apprehended and prosecuted for felony murder with
the underlying felony being burglary.

I. With respect to Priscilla and Elvis' criminal liabili-
ty for felony murder, which of the following is
most correct?
(A) The burglary acquittal precludes any subse-
quent prosecution under the doctrine of  res judi-
cata.

(B) The burglary acquittal precludes any subse-
quent prosecution under the doctrine of collater-
al estoppel.

(C) The burglary acquittal precludes any subse-
quent prosecution under the doctrine of double
jeopardy.

(D) The burglary acquittal does not preclude sub-

sequent prosecution for felony murder.

Answer: (C)

While married Bonnie and Bill Black had a son
whom they named Beau. When Beau was fourteen
years of age, Bonnie died in a fiery auto crash. Six
months after the accident, Bill met and married Jill
Hill. Thereafter, Jill moved into Bill's home which
was located in the city of Boulder. Jill became very
fond of Beau and actually developed a sexual attach-
ment. After his mother's death, Beau was extremely
despondant and eagerly sought Jill's love and affec-
tion. One day while Bill was away on a business trip,
Jill engaged in a sexual act with Beau in their home-
town of Boulder. The following day, Jill took Beau on
a ski trip to Vail and again molested the youngster.
When Bill returned home, Jill confessed to her mis-
deeds and sought Bill's forgiveness.

2. If Jill is prosecuted for molesting her sepson, she

should be found guilty of
(A) one count of child molestation because
Boulder and Vail are located within the same
state

(B) one count of child molestation because two
convictions for the same criminal offense vio-
late double jeopardy
two counts of child molestation because sep-
aratecriminal offenses occured

(C)

(D) two counts of child molestation because
Boulder and Vail are separate sovereigns

Answer: (C)

CRIMINAL LAW

16

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Pt/8hr

TE SPECIALIST

MUL	

CRIMINAL LAW	
MIG 1

Multistate Issue Graph

ELEMENTS OF CRIMES

VOLITIONAL ACT — normally D must cause a criminally proscribed result by some voluntary affirmative act;  look for indicia of lack of volition or control such as
(1) epilepsy, (2) automatism, or (3) hypnotism (duress is not a volitional act defense).

ACT (ACTUS REUS) —  law
does not punish for thought
alone; D must do some
criminally cognizable act.

OMISSION — if D has a legal duty, failure to
act is sufficient.

VICARIOUS LIABILITY — D may be responsibl
for act of another

STATUTE — duty explicitly imposed by a statute (e.g., file tax returns).
CONTRACT — duty imposed by agreement (e.g., lifeguard, nurse).
SPECIAL DEPENDENCY — strong moral duty plus knowledge that person is dependent and
relying on D (e.g., aged relative, young child, seamen–sea captain).
DETRIMENTAL UNDERTAKING — if D commences to aid and leaves victim in worse position
(some states make the mere undertaking a basis for duty even without detriment).
CAUSATION — if D causes victim's plight, even without fault, some states require D to aid.

RESPONDEAT SUPERIOR —  acts of employees in strict liability regulatory crimes.
UNRESPONSIBLE AGENT — acts of unresponsible agent (e.g., a child or insane person)
caused by D.
ACCOMPLICE CONDUCT — reasonably foreseeable acts of an accomplice.
CO-CONSPIRATOR CONDUCT —  acts of co-conspirators done to further the conspiratorial
goal.

INTENT (MENS REA) — criminal law focuses
on the culpability (e.g., blameworthiness) of D
by examining his state of mind with regard to
the criminal consequence  (see Mens Rea JIG).

PURPOSEFUL — if D does an act with the conscious object of causing the criminal result.

KNOWING — if D does an act consciously aware of the fact that a criminal result is practically certain.

RECKLESS — if D is consciously aware of the fact that his act creates a substantial and unjustifiable risk that a criminal result will occur.

NEGLIGENT — if D creates an unreasonable risk that a criminal result will occur.

VOLUNTARY — if D does a volitional act which causes a criminal result  (i.e., strict liability).

CAUSATION — D's act must cause
the particular result proscribed by
the definition of the crime.

PROXIMATE CAUSE — must be the
cause-in-fact with no unforeseeable
intervening causes.

APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLE

CAUSE-IN-FACT

"But For" — but for D's act the result would not have occurred when it
occurred.

Substantial Factor — even if not "but for," D's act was a substantial factor
or an independently sufficient cause of the result.

INTERVENING CAUSES — D normally acts on a "set stage" including unforeseeable abnormalities of vic-
tim, but if an unforeseeable independent act intervenes between D's act and the criminal result,  D is not
responsible.

HOMICIDE — D must cause the death of another human being within one year of act.
FALSE PRETENSES — D's misrepresentation must cause V to give up title to property (i.e., V must  rely
on misrepresentation).
ATTEMPT — D need not cause intended result, manifested culpability is sufficient.
SOLICITATION — D need not be successful in inducing another, act of encouraging is sufficient.
CONSPIRACY — formation of criminal combination is social harm, intended crime need  not be carried out.
BURGLARY — D must actually break and enter with the requisite criminal intent, intended crime need  not
be committed.
POSSESSION CRIMES —  D must knowingly possess illegal item (e.g., concealed weapon, drugs,
burglary tool) but he need not use them.

CRIMINAL LAW

Pink". MIG 2

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

MENS REA

ISSUE SPOTTING SEQUENCE
What state of mind is
required by the crime
charged?

(2) What was D's state of

mind with regard to the
criminally proscribed
consequence at the time
he did the act causing
that consequence?
(3) Are there any special
facts negating D's
culpability (i.e., any
mens rea defenses)?

REQUIRED MEN
TAL STATE

INDICATIVE	
LANGUAGE

Intentional, Deliberate, Willful (Purposeful) —  words requiring an act with the  conscious object
to cause a particular result (regardless of the likelihood of achieving result).
Knowingly, With Knowledge — requiring conscious awareness that conduct is practically certain
to cause a particular result (regardless of D's desire to cause result).

SPECIFIC INTENT —  purpose
or knowledge that act will cause
a particular criminal result.

THE BIG 7: BAM ACTS — (1) Burglary; (2) Assault — intent to batter or to frighten; (3) Murder — intent-to-kill forms only;
(4) Attempt; (5) Conspiracy; (6) Theft; (7) Solicitation.

MEN'S REA DEFENSES — (1) insanity; (2) diminished capacity; (3) intoxication (voluntary or involuntary); (4) mistake of fact
(even if unreasonable).

INDICATIVE	
LANGUAGE	

Recklessly, Maliciously —  requiring that D is consciously aware that his act creates a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that a particular result will be caused.
Criminal Negligence — more than "mere negligence," requiring that D's conduct manifest a
gross and culpable departure from standards of reasonableness  with regard to a particular result
(D need not be aware of risk). Normally, only used in homicide cases dealing with autos, guns,
drugs, or risk of fire.
Statutory Construction —  a statute proscribing conduct without specifying level of mens rea is
normally construed to require recklessness.

GENERAL INTENT — D must 	
be at least grossly and culpably
negligent with regard to causing	
the criminal result.

STRICT LIABILITY — D may
be convicted if his voluntary
act caused the criminally
proscribed result.

THE LITTLE 4: BRIM — (1)  Battery; (2) Rape; (3) Involuntary Manslaughter; (4) Murder —  other than intent-to-kill forms.

MENS REA DEFENSES — (1) insanity; (2) involuntary intoxication; (3) reasonable mistake of material fact.

MORALITY CRIMES: CABS —  (1) Contributing to delinquency of a minor; (2) Adultery; (3) Bigamy; (4) Statutory Rape.
TRAFFIC, SAFETY, AND WELFARE REGULATIONS —  where normal punishment is quasi-crime (e.g., fine or revocation of
license), administrative necessity justifies liability without culpability.
ULTRAHAZARDOUS ACTIVITIES — persons dealing with firearms, explosives, food, alcohol and drugs held to maximum
standard of care by imposition of strict liability.
MENS REA DEFENSES — none, strict liability requires only a voluntary act.

DETERMINING
MENTAL STATE

PRESUMPTION — D is presumed to intend to cause the natural and probable consequences  of his conduct.
EVIDENCE OF INTENT —  look for direct statements by D or circumstantial evidence (such as motive) which tend to indicate D's state of mind with respect to the criminally
proscribed consequences.

INSANITY	

M'NAGHTEN TEST (majority rule) —  D not criminally responsible if (1)  at the time of the offense  D was (2) laboring under such a defect of reason
from a disease of the mind  as (3) not to know (a) the nature and quality of his act  or, if he did know it, (b)  he did not know that the act was wrong.
IRRESISTIBLE IMPULSE (supplementary M'Naghten in many states) —  D not criminally responsible if (1)  at the time of the offense, D (2) was
unable to control his conduct (3) as a result of mental disease.
ALI/MPC TEST — D not criminally responsible if (1) at the time of the offense, (2) as a result of mental disease or defect, she (3) lacks substantial
capacity to either (a) appreciate the criminality of her conduct,  or (b) to conform her conduct to the requirements of the law.
PROOF — insanity is an affirmative defense, but once D introduces evidence of insanity, burden of proof shifts to prosecutor to show D is not
insane.
COMPETENCY — regardless of D's mental state at the time of the offense, an accused  cannot be tried for a crime if (1) at the time of trial, she is
(2) (a) incapable of understanding the nature of the proceedings, or (b) of assisting in her defense in a rational or reasonable manner.

MENS REA
DEFENSES

DIMINISHED	
RESPONSIBILITY	

MENTAL DEFICIENCY — about 12 states permit evidence of mental deficiency short of insanity to negate deliberation requirements of first degree
murder; California allows mental illness to negate malice aforethought and reduce an intentional murder to voluntary manslaughter.
INTOXICATION — involuntary intoxication  is a defense to any crime; it may negate a required mental state  if D is so intoxicated that he did not
understand the criminal nature of his conduct; voluntary intoxication  may (1) negate specific intent element of an offense  if (2) before he formulates
the criminal intent he (3) becomes so intoxicated that he lacked the capacity for culpability.

INFANCY — children under 7 cannot crimes; 7-14, child presumed incapable of crime, but prosecution can rebut with evidence that child actually understood his conduct
was wrong; over 14 children may be treated as adults (subject to state juvenile laws).

MISTAKE OF FACT

SPECIFIC INTENT CRIMES —  any material mistake of fact (whether reasonable or unreasonable) negates specific intent.
GENERAL INTENT CRIMES — a reasonable mistake of material fact negates recklessness or negligence required by general intent crime.

MISTAKE OF LAW — generally no defense, but MPC allows defense if (1) D  reasonably relied upon official interpretation of a law which was later declared invalid;
(2) without fault, D was not apprised of administrative rule; (3) if knowledge of legal status is an element of the offense;  or (4) where statute requires an affirmative act.



CRIMINAL LAW

Pirsaw MIG 3

MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

ATTEMPTS

D is guilty of an attempt to commit a crime if: (1) with the specific intent to cause a criminal result,  he (2) does some legally sufficient act toward the
commission of the intended crime.

SPECIFIC INTENT — D must be either purposeful or knowing with regard to causing the result proscribed by the underlying crime; always look for specific intent defenses, especially
intoxication and exculpating mistake. Remember, specific intent is required for all attempts, even if substantive crime is strict liability (e.g., attempted bigamy).

SUFFICIENT ACT —
must be beyond mere
preparation; a ques-
tion of law for
the judge.

IMPOSSIBILITY

LAST ACT — the last act required of D is always sufficient, even if subsequent acts of another are necessary (e.g., P puts poison in V's pills on nightstand).

UNEQUIVOCAL ACT —  if D's act unequivocally manifests criminal intent it is sufficient (very often even the last act does not do this, however).

CORROBORATING ACT — best view focuses upon the significance of D's act in demonstrating that D had the firm and present intent to commit the crime
(under this view the act must corroborate the existence of firm intent).

FACTUAL IMPOSSIBILITY — if crime would have resulted had the facts been as D thought they were, impossibility is no defense: (1) inherently inadequate
instrumentality (D mistakes sugar for poison); (2)  error in time or place (D attempts to "pick" an empty pocket, or kill a person already dead). Factual impossibility
is based upon a mistake which does  not negate culpability (i.e., D is worse than he appears).

STATUS OF GOODS — some courts hold that D cannot be guilty of an attempt to possess stolen property if property
possessed is not in fact "stolen" (i.e., true owner consented to use of property to apprehend D). Under this view, a mistake
as to the legal status of a thing provides a valid defense. Most courts and MPC treat this as factual impossibility (rather
than legal impossibility) and deny the defense.

LEGAL IMPOSSIBILITY

INTENDED RESULT IS NOT ILLEGAL — if D believes an act is illegal but it is not, he cannot be guilty of an attempt
simply by doing that act since the conduct actually intended is not regarded as socially harmful, thus, D must manifest a
willingness to do an act actually proscribed by law.

DEFINITION OF CRIME EXCLUDES D —  if, according to the definition of a crime, it is impossible for D to commit the
substantive offense, there can be no attempt by D.

ABANDONMENT — crime of attempt is complete once a legally sufficient act has been committed, but some courts and MPC allow a defense if D (1) voluntarily abandons the criminal act
(2) prior to completion of the substantive crime (3) under circumstances manifesting a complete renunciation of criminal intent.  Look for extrinsic causes of withdrawal which are  not defenses
(e.g., fear of apprehension, selection of a different victim, etc.)

mem? MIG 4

Multistate Issue Graph

CRIMINAL LAW	

CONSPIRACY

AGREEMENT — there
must be a true agreement
to promote or facilitate a
particular objective.

TWO OR MORE PERSONS

SPECIFIC INTENT — D must
have the specific intent with
regard to a criminal objective.

(1) Agreement between (2) two or more persons (3) who have the specific intent (4) to either (a) commit a crime or (b) to engage in dishonest, fraudulent or immoral
conduct injurious to public health or morals.

AGREEMENT SUFFICIENT — at common law, the agreement itself is the only act required to complete the crime; federal and about half of states now require some  additional
overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy (although the act need not be illegal in itself and only one conspirator need do an act).
PROOF — agreement may be inferred from concert of action (look for mutual adoption of a common purpose).
FALSE AGREEMENT — secret police agent or other "false agreement" situations are not conspiracies — there must be true actual intent to carry out unlawful objective by at
least two parties. (MPC is contra; party with true intent is still liable).
UNKNOWN CONSPIRATORS — D must agree with at least one other person but need not agree with (or even know identity of) all other members of the conspiracy.
SINGLE OR MULTIPLE CONSPIRACY —  the agreement is the essence of conspiracy; thus, there is only one conspiracy even if agreement encompasses separate diverse
criminal acts and even if agreement entails a continuous course of criminal conduct.

STATUS DEFENSE TO SUBSTANTIVE CRIME — if D conspires with B, it is no defense to either party that D may not be capable under the legal definition to commit underlying
crime himself (e.g., a man cannot rape his own wife).
DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY — that one party is immune from prosecution is no defense to other party.
DIMINISHED CAPACITY DEFENSES —  if B, the only other conspirator, possesses a diminished capacity defense negating specific intent (e.g., intoxication, infancy, insanity), a
few courts preclude conviction of D as well as B; better view including MPC permits convictions of D regardless of B's  personal mens rea defenses.
ACQUITTAL ON MERITS — if B, the only other conspirator, is acquitted on the merits (i.e., not because of procedural or personal mens rea defenses), D may not be convicted.
HUSBAND-WIFE — today, D may conspire with a spouse (not so at old common law).

WHARTON'S RULE 	

Consent Crimes — if crime logically requires the voluntary participation of another (e.g., bribery, incest, adultery, gambling), there is no conspiracy
unless agreement involves  an additional person not logically essential.
 Plurality Required by Substantive Crime —  if substantive crime requires a number of participants (e.g., 5 or more conducting gambling operations),
there can be no separate charge of conspiracy  unless agreement involves persons who are not guilty of the substantive crime itself.
Model Penal Code — abandons Wharton's Rule.

MENS REA DEFENSES APPLY —  D may assert any mens rea defenses which negate specific intent.
PURPOSEFUL AGREEMENT — it is always sufficient that D enters the agreement with the conscious object of causing, promoting or facilitating a result which he knows to be
criminal.
CORRUPT MOTIVE DOCTRINE —  many states require that D actually had a  corrupt motive (that he knew that intended conduct was illegal) except where the act is inherently
wrong.

SUPPLIER CASES — D's "agreement"	
consists of providing goods or services 	
which he knows will be used to commit	
a crime.	

Mere Knowledge — normally not sufficient, but conviction is possible if: (1) goods supplied are  highly dangerous (e.g.,
explosives), or highly regulated (e.g., drugs); (2) the crime is very serious (e.g., homicide, kidnapping); (3) there is  continuous
involvement, or (4) if D affirmatively encouraged use more of his goods when he had reason to know that the use was illegal.
Knowledge Plus Stake — D may be convicted if he  knows that his goods or services are used for a criminal purpose and he
has a "stake" in the success of the criminal objective (e.g., D charges an inflated price).

CONSPIRATORIAL —
OBJECTIVE

CRIME — it is a conspiracy to agree to commit any crime, including a misdemeanor.
PUBLICLY INJURIOUS ACT — it is a conspiracy to agree with another to do any act (even if lawful) which is injurious to public health or morals and is accomplished by
dishonest, fraudulent, corrupt or immoral means (MPC and some states are  contra limiting conspiracies to "crimes").

DEFENSES	

ABANDONMENT — once a conspiracy has been formed, it is no defense that D subsequently withdrew, even if done prior to the completion of the underlying crime. (MPC and some states  contra,
but only if D: (1) completely renounces criminal purpose,  and (2) makes substantial efforts to prevent the commission of the underlying crime.)
IMPOSSIBILITY — factual impossibility is not a defense though D may prevail if the conspiratorial objective is simply not illegal, regardless of D's contrary belief.

SPECIAL CONSEQUENCES

SEPARATE OFFENSE — conspiracy is a separate offense, distinct from the underlying crime (i.e., there is no merger).
VENUE — a criminal charge may be brought in any county where some act in furtherance was committed by any party,  or where the agreement was made.
HEARSAY EVIDENCE — in a trial for conspiracy, otherwise inadmissable hearsay statements of co-conspirators are admissible against D if  made in furtherance of the conspiracy.

VICARIOUS LIABILITY	

General Rule — in addition to conspiracy and the substantive crime intended, D may be convicted of other crimes committed by members of
conspiracy in furtherance of conspiratorial goal (it is no defense that D did not intend nor know of the acts.)
Chain Conspiracy — if D is part of a "chain" of known illegal acts (e.g., smuggling–wholesaling–retailing of drugs), he is liable for all crimes
committed to further the conspiratorial goal (look for  "community of interest").
Wheel Conspiracy — if D conspires with B and B enters into similar separate and unrelated agreements for similar crimes with X and Y,
B is the "hub" of a "wheel conspiracy;" if there is a  community of interest  so that D,X, and Y are interested in the success of each other's
agreements with B, there is a "rim" connecting all the "spokes" in one conspiracy and all parties are liable for the criminal acts of the others. If
there is no community of interest, there are 3 separate conspiracies and only B is liable for the acts of all others (as well as for 3 conspiracies).

ATTEMPTED CONSPIRACY (SOLICITATION) —  one who attempts to induce, encourage or command another to commit a crime is guilty of solicitation; if the other person agrees there is conspiracy.

DURATION — vicarious liability lasts until the goal of the conspiracy is achieved (including  immediate escape) or D withdraws by informing all co-conspirators. (In many states, D must make some substantial effort to
prevent the crime.)

CRIMINAL LAW	

poirow MIG 5a

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

CRIMINAL HOMICIDE ISSUES

Issue Spotting Sequence: (1)  Is D responsible for an act causing the death? (2 )Was D's act the  cause of the death? (3) Was the act directed at  another person? (4) Was the person living at the time of the act?
(5) Did D possess a criminal intent with respect to the death? (6) Was there any legal justification?

Voluntary Affirmative Act —  act is sufficient even if it is itself lawful and/or inherently non dangerous. If immediate killing act was involuntary due to epileptic seizure or sudden unconsciousness,
look to see whether the last voluntary act done by D was done with awareness of possibility of loss of control.

ACT

Omission — death caused by D's failure to do an act he had a legal duty to do as the result of: (1) special statute, (2) contractual delegation, (3) special relationship of dependency, (4) voluntary
undertaking (if abandonment puts victim in worse position) or (5) D's innocent act imperils victim.

Vicarious Liability — D is responsible for homicidal acts of: (1) unresponsible agents put into motion by D, (2) accomplices—if act was reasonably foreseeable, and (3) co-conspirators—if act
was done in furtherance of the conspiratorial goal (whether it was foreseeable or not).

Cause-in-fact 	

But For — D's act was a necessary condition of result; "but for" the act, the victim would have lived longer.
 Independently Sufficient — even if not the "but for" cause, D's act was sufficient in itself to produce result.
Substantial Factor — even if not either the "but for" cause or an independently sufficient cause, D's act was at least a substantial factor in producing result.

CAUSE

Proximate Cause	

Outside Time Limit — at common law, the victim must die within a year and a day of the injury inflicted by D. Modern states extend time up to 3 years.
Pre-existing Conditions — D "takes his victim as he finds him" and acts on a "set stage," therefore, even unknown and unforeseeable pre-existing conditions which
contribute to V's death do  not intervene to break the chain of causations. Though D is criminally responsible for the direct results of his conduct from a causation stand
point, unusually unforeseeable conditions may create a mens rea defense.
Intervening Causes — a separate event or act which occurs between D's cause-in-fact conduct and the death will  supercede D's act and break the chain of causation if
the intervening act or event was: (1) Independently sufficient  to cause the death, (2) unforeseeable, and (3) an independent act of god or another person not directly and
logically flowing from D's act. (Some courts will also relieve D of responsibility if the intervening force was  dependent). Failure of intervening rescue does not break the
chain of causation.

DEATH OF ANOTHER — suicidal acts and attempts are not sufficient for homicide though many states separately punish attempted suicides especially if they endanger or injure innocent persons.

LIVING PERSON

Unborn Infants — a victim has to be "born alive" and separated from its mother before homicide responsibility can arise. Some courts hold that a "viable" unborn fetus is a person for homicide
purposes if it was sufficiently developed to be capable of living independently from its mother. State has right to declare a fetus "alive" after the first trimester of pregnancy.  Roe v Wade.
Comatose Victims — death occurs at the moment all bodily functions permanently cease, and not before. Because of live sustaining equipment that can support biological life and minimal body
functions long after irreparable deterioration of the brain, the notion of "brain death" is a possible alternative.

CRIMINAL INTENT —  homicide crimes are "graded" in
terms of the culpability of D with respect to the death
(See MIG 5A) but the following mental states are suffi-
cient for some form of criminal homicide.

Specific Intent to Kill — D has the specific intent to kill if he is either  knowing or purposeful with regard to the death. This includes willful, deliberate,
premeditated and deliberate killings. Unless justified, all intentional killings are either murder or voluntary manslaughter. Intent to kill is an express
form of malice aforethought.

Unintentional Killings — D can be guilty of criminal homicide even if there was no intent to kill at the time of the death-causing act. Unintentional
killings may either be murder or manslaughter but intent is criminal if D: (1) intends to cause great bodily harm, a forcible felony or resist a known
lawful arrest, (sufficient states for implied malice aforethought and, therefore, murder), (2) was  reckless with regard to the death (wanton reckless
disregard for human life is an extreme form sufficient for murder), (3) was  criminally negligent with regard to the death,  or (4) intends to commit a
malum in se unlawful act (or inherently dangerous crime) not amounting to a forcible felony.

LEGAL JUSTI-
FICATION (See
MIG 7)

Self Defense — at the time of the act D (1) reasonably believed (2) that the amount of force used was necessary to protect himself from (3)  imminent (4) great bodily harm or death.
D may not be aggressor and, in minority of states, he must retreat before using deadly force if he knows he can do so with complete safety (except in his own home).

Defense of Other — D's act was (1) done  in defense of another person  and (2) the person defended had a legal right to use the same amount of force used by D.  D "stands in the
shoes" of the person defended and his conduct is judged in terms of actual facts. MPC, N.Y., and modern view permit defense if D reasonably believed that person defended would
have been legally justified in using the force employed by D. Some states require person defended to be a close relative.

Prevention of Crime — D's act was intended to (1) prevent commission of a forcible felony (e.g., burglary, arson, robbery, rape, kidnapping, felonius assault) which (2) was  actually
being committed and (3) the force used was reasonably believed necessary.  MPC, N.Y., and modern view judge D in terms of his reasonable belief about the commission of the
felony, not the actual facts.

Apprehension of Dangerous Felon —  D's act was (1) done to effectuate an arrest or prevent escape of a person who had (2) actually (3) had committed a forcile felony,  (4) the
force used reasonably appeared to be necessary,  and (5) the act did not unreasonably endanger innocent bystanders.  If D is a peace officer his conduct will be judged in terms of
his reasonable belief as to the commission of the underlying felony, not by the actual facts.

Necessity — D's act was (1) done to prevent imminent loss of life (2) under circumstances where  according to ordinary standards of intelligence and morality  (3) the harm sought to
be avoided outweighed the harm caused by the act.

Defenses not available — deadly force is not justified on a theory of duress, entrapment, defense of property (though if victim was committing a burglary or robbery prevention of a
forcible felony justifies a killing); or  consent ("mercy killing" or euthanasia is not a recognized defense but it can mitigate sentencing).

CRIMINAL LAW	

Posebe  MIG 5b

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

HOMICIDE CRIMES

Intent to Kill — Includes both purposeful (conscious object) and knowing (practically certain) killings. Specific intent defenses available to negate mens rea.  Under modern
statutes, if intent to kill is supplemented by  deliberation and premeditation (mental states revealing a relatively calm, "cold-blooded," reflective killing as opposed to a sudden,
impulsive or spontaneous killing). If victim does not die, D is guilty of attempted murder.

Unintentional Killing — Wanton Reckless Disregard for Life —  Unintended killing resulting from an act done with a conscious and knowing disregard of a plain and strong
likelihood that an unjustified death or serious injury will result.  Any facts which negate conscious awareness of the risk may prevent mens rea (but voluntary intoxication may
not negate recklessness). More than "mere recklessness;" act must reveal a wanton depraved indifference to human life. If victim does not die, no attempted murder since no
specific intent to kill.

Unintentional Killing — Intent to Cause Great Bodily harm (GBH) —  Unintended killing resulting from an act done with the purpose or knowledge that it cause  serious
protracted injury or create a substantial risk of death (very similar to recklessness). Includes any intentional wounding with a gun or knife, breaking of bones, clubbing, poisoning
or an act designed to produce unconsciousness by drugs or violence. Intent to do GBH may be negated by mistake, extreme intoxication, and in minority, by diminished mental
capacity. If victim does not die, no attempted murder. Under modern statutes unintended death resulting from  intentional use of poison or explosives, torture,  or ambush (lying in
wait) is first degree.

Unintentional Killing — Intent to Resist Known Lawful Arrest —  Unintended killing resulting from act done in resistance of a  known lawful arrest. D must actually know that
the arrest is under lawful authority and mens rea defenses may negate that knowledge. If victim does not die, no attempted murder.

Unintentional Killing — Intent to Commit a Felony —  Unintended killing proximately caused by and
during the commission of a felony or an attempted felony. Wide state variations as to the  nature of the
underlying felony (most limit to forcible felonies — burglary, arson, robbery, rape, kidnapping), the  degree
of offense (usually first degree), and special limitations (usually as to the status of the killer or victim).  No
attempted murder if victim does not die.

Special Limitations — modern view permits felony
murder (FM) only if D or a criminal accomplice directly
kills the victim and where victim is an innocent person
(not an accomplice)

Underlying Felony Must be Proved —  any defense
to the underlying felony (e.g., claim of right to a
burglary or robbery) absolves D of FM responsibility.

Perpetration — felony includes period from attempt
(i.e., act beyond preparation) through immediate flight
until final rest.

Intentional Killing — Provocation —  Intentional killing done in the  heat of passion caused by legally sufficient provocation  (actual or threatened battery or perceived infidelity —
not mere words). Provocation must be such that it might render a reasonable ordinary person to lose self control and act rashly. "Cooling off" period between provocation and
killing act destroys defense. Normal range of physical and temperamental defects are  not taken into account but extreme disabilities of a permanent nature  may be considered
by a liberal court. Modern trend is to liberalize types of legally sufficient provocation and focus on culpability; MPC allows any "extreme emotional disturbance" regardless of
cause. If victim does not die, some courts hold D for  attempted voluntary manslaughter; others only for felonious assault.

Intentional Killing — Mistaken Justification —  Intentional killing done with an  actual but unreasonable or erroneous belief that the act was legally justified. Includes use of
excessive force, unreasonable belief that harm was imminent, error as to the rights of a person being defended, etc. — called  imperfect defense. If victim does not die, some
convict of attempted voluntary manslaughter; others felonious assault.

Intentional Killing — Diminished Capacity —  While most states allow evidence of mental defect short of insanity and extreme intoxication to negate the "premeditation" aspect
(reducing a charge to second degree murder), a small minority go further and permit a showing of diminished mental capacity to  negate malice aforethought and reduce the
charge to voluntary manslaughter. Diminished capacity applies only to homicide charges.

Unintentional Killing — Ordinary Recklessness — Unintended killing resulting from an act done with a  conscious disregard for a substantial and unjustifiable risk of death or
serious injury but one that does not demonstrate a wanton depraved indifference to human life. The distinction between ordinary recklessness resulting in involuntary
manslaughter and depraved recklessness resulting in murder is merely a question of degree to be determined as an issue of fact.

Unintentional Killing — Gross and Culpable Negligence — Unintended killing resulting from a negligent act which reveals a wanton disregard of the risk of death or serious
injury. More than ordinary negligence, it must be gross and culpable but it is not required that the prosecutor prove that D was consciously aware of the risk (compare to
recklessness). Normally deals with mishandling of an  inherently dangerous instrumentality  (e.g., guns, explosives, automobiles),  product (e.g., food and drugs) or situation (e.g.,
risk of fire in a public place).

Unintentional Killing — Unlawful Act Rule — Unintended killing proximately caused by and during the commission or attempted commission of a malum in se (i.e., wrong in
itself) misdemeanor or felony (if jurisdiction limits FM rule to forcible felonies). Sometimes called the misdemeanor-manslaughter rule. Many states apply rule only to  inherently
dangerous crimes or non-dangerous crimes committed in an unusual and inherently dangerous manner. Look for this possibility whenever FM fails.

Unintentional Killing — Provocation and Mistaken Justification —  Unintended killing resulting from an act only intended to wound or frighten  done in the heat of passion
with legally sufficient provocation or in an honest but erroneous belief that the force used was legally justified,  (compare to voluntary manslaughter where the intent was to kill).

MURDER
Unlawful killing with malice
aforethought, no degrees
of murder at common law.

VOLUNTARY
MANSLAUGHTER
An intentional murder
"mitigated" by facts negating
malice aforethought.

INVOLUNTARY
MANSLAUGHTER
An unintentional unlawful
killing without malice
aforethought.

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST 	
MULTISTATE

CRIMINAL LAW	

   MIG 6

Multistate Issue Graph	

COMMON LAW BURGLARY

(1) Trespassory (2) breaking and (3) entering (4) a dwelling (5) in the nighttime
(6) with specific intent to: (a) commit a larceny or (b) any felony (7) therein.

TRESPASSORY — entry must be without consent, but entry gained by misrepresentation of identity or other trick is trespassory.

BREAKING — D must create or enlarge the opening for his entry; includes opening an unlocked door or raising a partially open window, but D need not actually "break." In many states,
unlawful "remaining" in a store after closing is a constructive breaking, though common law requires that the breaking must be done to gain entry, not to exit. Some states abandon the breaking
requirement entirely.

ENTERING — D must physically intrude victim's property.

D'S BODY — any portion of D's body is sufficient.

INSTRUMENT — any tool or hook invading the property is sufficient if it is used to achieve the criminal purpose
(as opposed to using it to merely gain entry).

INCLUDES CURTILAGE — structures immediately surrounding the dwelling (e.g., enclosed in the area of the
"yard") and physically connected buildings.

DWELLING — structure must be a place where one  normally
sleeps (though it need not be occupied at the time of entry).

INCLUDES BOATS AND TRAILERS WHERE PEOPLE SLEEP

MODERN STATUTES EXTEND TO ALL "ENCLOSED STRUCTURES" ABANDONING THE DWELLING
REQUIREMENT

NIGHTTIME — entry must occur 30 minutes before sunset or after sunrise. This requirement is  abandoned under modern "breaking and entering" statutes.

SPECIFIC INTENT

LARCENY

Intent to Commit Any Larceny is Sufficient (even if petty larceny)
Be Sure all Elements of Larceny are Specifically Intended: (1)  trespassory taking, (2) carrying away, (3) personal property,
(4) known to be owned by another, (5) intent to permanently deprive. The claim of right defense is particularly likely to arise, if it does,
there is no burglary.

THEREIN — D must intend to commit the crime  in the dwelling (or enclosed structure); it is not sufficient that D broke and entered only to get to another place.

ANY FELONY — intent to commit any felony is sufficient, but look for defenses to the underlying felony.

CRIMINAL LAW

Ptirabg. MIG 7

MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

JUSTIFICATION FOR THE USE OF
FORCE

SELF-DEFENSE — if D has a
(1) reasonable fear of (2) imminent
(3) bodily harm he may use (4) that
amount of force which is reasonably
necessary to prevent the harm
(5) unless D is an aggressor.

REASONABLE FEAR — D must actually and reasonably believe that D is threatening imminent bodily harm (belief need not be correct).
IMMINENT HARM — D must believe harm is imminent  although D may seize last reasonable opportunity to defend himself if V attempts to deprive him of
the capacity for self-defense (as where V attempts to tie D up and torture him later). Note: If threat of harm is past, D has no right of self-defense.
BODILY HARM — "self defense" is not available to prevent or respond to insults regardless of how offensive or vile,  use of force justified only to prevent a
reasonably anticipated battery.

NECESSARY FORCE —  short of deadly force, D may use
that amount of force that is reasonably necessary to
prevent the threatened harm;  if D uses excessive force, he
becomes an aggressor and loses the right of self-defense.

DEADLY FORCE — (1) force intended to cause death or (2) force creating a
substantial likelihood of causing great bodily harm  (including death).
RECIPROCITY — D may only use deadly force to respond to deadly force.

RETREAT RULE (minority)  —
D may not use deadly force if he
actually knew he could have
prevented the harm by retreating.

D must subjectively believe that he
could retreat in complete safety.

D need not retreat from his own
home (many states include any
place of nightly repose and some
include offices and automobile).

AGGRESSOR LIMITATION

AGGRESSOR — D is an aggressor if (1) he strikes the first blow or (2) commits a crime against V.

REGAINING RIGHTS OF SELF-DEFENSE — aggressor regains the right to use force in self-defense if (1)  he
abandons aggression completely and V actually perceives the abandonment,  or (2) V uses excessive force.

DEFENSE AGAINST UNLAWFUL ARREST —  D may use reasonable, non-deadly force to prevent an unlawful arrest or unlawful attachment of her property, but she acts at her own risk; the arrest or
attachment must, in fact, be unlawful or the defense is denied. (Modern view prevents all use of force to resist any arrest, even if unlawful.)

DEFENSE OF OTHERS — in defending another person (V) from imminent injury, D is justified in using only the amount of force which V could use in his own defense; D stands in the shoes of V and if V
was, in fact, the aggressor, the force used by D is not privileged. (MPC and modern trend allow D's conduct to be measured by the reasonable person standard — if D reasonably believed the force used
was justified, the defense is valid.)

DEFENSE OF PROPERTY — modern non-deadly force may be used to prevent theft, destruction or trespass of property. If deadly force was used, look to see whether it could be justified as self defense
(e.g., as where D shot an armed robber) or to prevent a dangerous forcible felony (e.g., as where D shot a burglar intruding into his home).

LAW ENFORCEMENT DEFENSES — police officers and private citizens may use forc
in preventing crimes and effectuating an arrest. Normally, courts are more liberal in
allowing force to prevent a crime (especially a felony) than in an after-the-crime arrest.

POLICE — may use amount of force, including deadly force, which reasonably appears
necessary as long as force is not disproportionate to the offense involved or the resistance
offered (Some states limit use of deadly force to prevent commission of a dangerous forcible
felony or apprehension of a dangerous fleeing felon.)

CITIZEN — may use the same amount of force as police officer except  D acts at his own
risk; defense is denied if D is mistaken about the commission of the crime. (MPC and
modern trend test D's conduct by reasonable person standard.)

NECESSITY — force, including deadly force, is justified to avoid an (1) imminent public or private injury, (2) resulting from natural physical forces, (3) which injury is about to occur through no fault of the
actor and which is (4) of such gravity that (5) according to ordinary standards of intelligence and morality (6) the desirability of avoiding the injury clearly outweighs the state's interest in preventing the

proscribed conduct.

CRIMINAL LAW	

Posebv  MIG 8

MULTISTA TE SPECIALIST

Multistate Issue Graph

THEFT OFFENSES

ACQUISITION BY STEALTH, FORCE, OR THREAT

TRESPASSORY — taking by stealth or force.
TAKING OF POSSESSION (caption) — D must take possession and acquire dominion and control; there can be no larceny if D
already has lawful possession.
CARRYING AWAY (asportation) —  larceny complete when D carries the property away from the point of taking; slight movement
is sufficient.
PERSONAL PROPERTY — D must take tangible personal property at common law, but most states have special statutes for
theft of services and other intangibles.
OF ANOTHER — D must specifically know the property is owned by another; any bona fide claim of right is a complete defense.
Also look for mens rea defenses of mistake or intoxication.
INTENT TO PERMANENTLY DEPRIVE —  D must intend to permanently deprive the owner of the property at the time of the
taking; no larceny if D intends to restore the identical property taken but intent is sufficient if D: (1) intends to pay a cash equiva-
lent at a later time, (2) intends to return only if a reward is paid, or (3) recklessly exposes property to loss.

FROM A PERSON — taking from the "presence" of a person is sufficient if force or threat was needed to sever the property from
the person's control.
FORCE OR THREAT — must precede or accompany the taking. Armed robbery is an aggravated form where D uses a weapon or
an article designed to look like a weapon.

INJURY — includes threats to injure V or his family or to injure V's property.
ACCUSATION — includes threats to charge or prosecute V with a crime (whether or not V actually committed the crime) if used to
cause V to do an act or pay money; claim of right is no defense.
DISGRACE — includes threats to expose V to disgrace or extreme humiliation.
NEED NOT BE IMMEDIATE — unlike robbery, the threat need not relate to an immediate harm.

ACQUISITION BY FRAUD OR TRICK

TITLE — the owner must intend to convey permanent unfettered possession (i.e., title) to D in a sale or trade transaction.
REPRESENTATION — unlike larceny by trick, it is not sufficient that D makes a false promise; there must be misrepresentation of
a present or past fact or there is no crime.
SCIENTER — D must know of the falsity of the representation at the time of acquisition.
RELIANCE — owner must actually rely on D's misrepresentation.

POSSESSION — the owner must intend to convey only temporary possession to D in a rental, loan, or bailment transaction.
REPRESENTATION — includes misrepresentation of past or present facts  and a false promise to return the property.
SCIENTER — D must actually know the representation or promise was false at the time of the taking.
RELIANCE — owner must actually rely on D's misrepresentation or D is only liable for attempt.

LARCENY — (1) trespassory (2) taking and (3) carrying away
of (4) personal property (5) known to be another's with (6) the
intent to permanently deprive.

ROBBERY — (1) larceny (be sure all elements are present)
(2) from a person (3) accomplished by force or putting in fear
(i.e., threat). Includes threat to person, his family, or his
property.

EXTORTION — statutory extension of common law robbery
consisting of (1) the use of malicious threats with the (2)
specific intent to (3) compel a person to either (a) pay
money, or (b) do or refrain from doing any act against his will
(commonly referred to as "blackmail").

OBTAINING PROPERTY BY FALSE PRETENSES —
(1) acquisition of title (not mere possession) of (2) personal
property (3) by means of a representation of fact (not a
promise of future performance) (4) known by D to be false
(5) at the time of acquisition.

LARCENY BY TRICK — (1) taking of possession (not title)
of (2) personal property (3) known to be owned by another
(4) with the intent to permanently deprive (5) where such taking
is accomplished by means of a representation or promise
(6) known by D to be false (7) at the time of the taking.

LARCENY BY CONVERSION — same as larceny by trick except that there is no false representation; the intent to permanently convert the property for D's own exclusive use must be formed  after the
lawful acquisition of possession in a rental, loan, or bailment situation.

EMBEZZLEMENT — a variation of larceny by conversion
developed to deal with (1) the improper use (i.e., conversion)
of (2) property (3) entrusted to D's custody; there is no need
for the intent to permanently deprive and no need for a mis-
representation.

CONVERSION — D need only apply the property to a  personal use to be guilty, regardless of the intent to restore or even the
actual restoration of the property.
PROPERTY — by some statutes includes title to real property.
ENTRUSTMENT — D must have acquired custody of the property as a result of a special fiduciary relationship (e.g., trustee, agent,
employee).

CRIMINAL LAW	

26

ponbzo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

tomb.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE

Evidence. Any species of proof, or probative nu
ly presented at the trial of an issue, by the act of
and through the medium of witnesses, records,
exhibits, concrete objects, etc., for the purpose  4
belief in the minds of the court or jury as to th
tion. Taylor v. Howard, 111 R.I 527, 304 A.2d
Testimoney. writings, material objects, or oi
presented to the senses that are offered to pl.(

1.

2.

3.

4.

(B) Under Federal Rules of Evidence (F.R.E.)  401, relevant evidence is that which tends
to make the existence of a fact of consequence more (or less) probable than it would other-
wise be. Relevant evidence is generally admissible (F.R.E. 402), but it is inadmissible where
its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues,
misleading the jury, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presenta-
tion of cumulative evidence (F.R.E. 403). The videotape of Dryden showing him unsteady,
abusive, and speaking in a slurred manner is relevant on a charge of driving while intoxicated
and should be admitted. It is not prejudicial nor unfair to Dryden. Answer choice (B) is
correct. Choice (A) is incorrect because the videotape is not a "statement" under  F.R.E.
801(a). Choice (C) is incorrect because the privilege against self-incrimination applies only to
evidence that is "testimonial" in nature. Choice (D) is a rule of character evidence which is
inapplicable to this question.

(C) The best evidence rule applies only when the proponent is attempting to prove the
contents or terms of a writing.  Note that sometimes a writing recites or records a perceivable
event or condition such as a marriage (marriage certificate), payment of money (receipt), or
the utterance of certain words (transcript). Here, the proponent wishing to prove the underly-
ing event may offer testimony as an observer. This does not involve the best evidence rule
because the proponent is not attempting to prove the terms of a writing, but merely is pre-
In this hypo,
senting evidence of an event perceived by a witness with firsthand knowledge. 
O'Toole's testimony is not reliant on the writing or the videotape. He had firsthand knowledge
of Kaufman's confession because he was present and overheard it. By analogy, in  People v.
Swayze,  220 Cal. App. 2d 476, the best evidence rule did not preclude a police officer from
testifying to a statement made by the defendant that also happened to be recorded.  Evidence,
pg. 706.

MBE Exam Tip: This distinction between the best evidence rule and firsthand knowledge
is frequently tested on the MBE. Remember the best evidence rule only applies  when the
proponent is attempting to prove the contents or terms of a writing.

(C) This same issue was tested on a recent MBE. A general rule of evidence requires
that a witness have firsthand knowledge of the matter about which she testifies.  Quite
often it is apparent from the witness' testimony whether she has personal knowledge of the
facts she is recounting. Sometimes, however, an opponent will challenge (and object) to
the accuracy of a witness' firsthand account. In this situation, the role of the judge in
responding to this objection is to admit the testimony if he finds that there is sufficient
evidence for the jury to reasonably conclude that the witness has firsthand knowledge.

(D) Under F.R.E. 104(a), preliminary questions concerning the qualification of a per-
son to be a witness, the existence of a privilege, or the admissibility of evidence shall be
determined by the court. Preliminary questions of fact governing the application of an
exclusionary rule normally are determined exclusively by the judge. The judge's decision
is final and is not subject to a contrary determination by the jury. Additionally, the judge
resolves factual questions that determine the applicability of any technical evidentiary
rules. He decides, for example, if a dying declarant had a sense of impending death; if an
entry was made in the regular course of business; or if there was a necessary state of

push.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1	

EVIDENCE

5.

6.

excitement to qualify a declaration as an excited utterance. Lilly,  Law of Evidence, p. 459.
Therefore, Choices (A), (B), and (C) are incorrect because in each case, the preliminary
factual determination will be made by the judge, not the jury. As a result, by process of
elimination the correct answer is (D).

(A) According to Fed. Rule of Evidence 406, "Evidence of the habit of a person or of the
routine practice of an organization, whether corroborated or not and regardless of the presence
of eyewitnesses, is relevant to prove that the conduct of the person or organization on a
particular occasion was in conformity with the habit or routine practice."  Exam Tip: On the
MBE the "key" words denoting habit are "always," "invariably," "customarily" and "habitu-
ally." Conversely, if a person "generally" behaves or "often" acts in a particular situation is
not sufficient to constitute habit.

(C) One of the most important Evidence distinctions tested on the bar exam is statements
made in compromise or settlement discussions (F.R.E. 408) and admissions made in con-
nection with an offer to pay medical or hospital expenses  (F.R.E. 409). Statements made in
compromise negotiations are not admissible. On the other hand, under  F.R.E. 409 we sever
and admit the admission while the offer to pay medical expenses is not admissible. Based on
the given answer choices, it is necessary to assume that Jethro's statement was made in con-
nection with settlement negotiations. Since the facts state that Jack has filed a lawsuit against
Moonglow, there is an actual dispute between the parties. Under the circumstances, Moon-
glow's lawyer is attempting to engage in compromise negotiations.

Multistate Nuance Chart:

F.R.E. 408

Settlement Negotiations

F.R.E. 409
Admission Made In Connection
With Offer To Pay Medical Expenses

Statements made during settlement or compromise
discussions are not admissible as against public
policy. Note there must be an actual dispute
before settlement negotiations may take place.

The admission is severed and admitted in evi-
dence. But the offer to pay medical or hospital
expenses is excluded.

7. (C) Of the six Multistate subject areas, the Evidence questions are the "trickiest." Here is
a very subtle distinction that was tested on the MBE last summer. Many students will be
"suckered" into choosing choice (D) thinking that this is a settlement or compromise offer. In
order to exclude statements made in compromise negotiations,  "there must be an actual
dispute or, at least, an apparent difference of view between the parties as to the validity or
amount of a claim." Evidence, pg. 811. In this particular question, the tentmaker is concluding
that no dispute existed at the moment Jethro offered to pay Sonja the $100. On the contrary,
Jethro is making a spontaneous statement immediately following the incident at the petting zoo.

EVIDENCE	

2

plumate

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Evidence F.R.E. 409 Variation:

Mario had just purchased a new 1981 Alpha Romeo
Spider convertible from Santa Monica Import Motors.
As Mario was carefully driving his Alpha home, within
the posted speed limit, Amy, aged 11, suddenly darted
into the street in front of his car. Although Mario imme-
diately applied his brakes and swerved to avoid Amy,
the car hit the youngster (fracturing her legs). As Amy
was laying in the street awaiting an ambulance, Mario
rushed over to her and said: "I'm terribly sorry. This is
the first time I ever drove this car. I don't know what
happened, but it must have been my fault. Send me all
your hospital bills. I'll pay for everything."

When Amy was later released from the hospital, her
parents contacted Mario who refused to pay anything.
Mario told Amy's mother... "Since your daughter ran
into the street, it was her fault. I have witnesses who saw
what she did. If I weren't such a nice guy, I'd sue you
for the damage to my Alpha."

1. If Amy's parents, on her behalf, sue Mario in tort,
which of the following is the most accurate state-
ment regarding Mario's post-accident statements?

(A) Mario's statement regarding his operation of
the Alpha as well as his statement concerning
payment of the hospital bills are both admis-
sible on the issue of negligence.

(B) Mario's statement regarding payment of the
hospital bills is admissible, but his statement
concerning his operation of the Alpha is not
admissible.

(C) Mario's statement regarding his operation
of the Alpha is admissible on the issue of
negligence, but his statement concerning
payment of the hospital bills is not admis-
sible in accordance with public policy
considerations.

(D) Neither Mario's statement regarding his oper-
ation of the Alpha nor his statement concern-
ing payment of the hospital bills is admissible
on the issue of negligence.

Answer: (C)

8.

9.

10.

11.

(C) F.R.E. 407 allows evidence of  subsequent remedial measures when offered to show
ownership or control. If the tree was on city property and thus the responsibility of the city, it
is unlikely that Dow would have it cut down. Such evidence is therefore admissible, under
answer choice (C), to show the tree was on his property.

(B) According to F.R.E. 605, a judge presiding at the trial may not testify in that trial
as a witness. No objection need be made in order to preserve the point. Note that choice
(A) is incorrect because Brando made the statement in a public hallway area. If another
individual (other than the judge) had overheard the statement, he or she would be permit-
ted to testify.

(B) With respect to rulings on evidence, F.R.E. 103 provides that a timely objection or
motion to strike should state the specific ground(s) for the objection. Usually, objections
will either go to the "manner and form" of a question or answer or to the "substance", such
as relevancy and hearsay. Here, Choice (B) is better than (A) because  Kennett's answer is
non-responsive in form to the question being asked of the witness. Wawa's attorney is ask-
ing Kennett the date the mushrooms were shipped and the witness is responding that
Chester "volunteered at a homeless shelter." On the other hand, answer (A) goes more to
a "substantive" objection.

(D) The question deals with character evidence in a criminal case. In accordance with
F.R.E. 404(a) (1), an accused may offer evidence of his good character by reputation and
opinion, but not specific acts, to prove his innocence, and the prosecution may rebut the same.
However, the defendant must first "open the door" by presenting such evidence of his good
character before the prosecution is entitled to rebut the good character of the accused. Choice

posabp

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3	

EVIDENCE

(D) is correct. Caveat: Students must carefully read the call of the question. In this case,
Loscutoff, the prosecution witness, is being called to testify before the facts tell you that
Wapner, the defendant, has presented any evidence. Therefore, the testimony of Loscutoff,
which might have been proper rebuttal testimony at some later point in the trial, will be
inadmissible at this point.

12. (D) According to F.R.E. 404(b), "Evidence of other crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admis-
sible to prove the character of a person to show that he acted in conformity therewith." In the
present example, Hudson is attempting to introduce evidence of Dr. Iris' prior conduct
(namely, her failure to warn Peltz) as circumstantial evidence to show how Dr. Iris acted on
another occasion. Under F.R.E. 404(b), this type of character evidence is inadmissible. There-
fore, choice (D) is the best answer. Choice (A) is wrong because  routine practice covers the
customary or regular practices of a business organization. A single incident of conduct does
not reflect customary behavior.

RULE 404 — CHARACTER EVIDENCE NOT ADMISSIBLE TO PROVE CONDUCT;
EXCEPTIONS:

(a) Character evidence generally. Evidence of a person's character or a trait of his character is not
admissible for the purpose of proving that he acted in conformity therewith on a particular occa-
sion, except:

(1) Character of accused. Evidence of a pertinent trait of his character offered by an accused,

or by the prosecution to rebut the same;

(2) Character of a victim. Evidence of a pertinent trait of character of the victim of the crime
offered by an accused, or by the prosecution to rebut the same, or evidence of a character
trait of peacefulness of the victim offered by the prosecution in a homicide case to rebut
evidence that the victim was the first aggressor;

(3) Character of witness.  Evidence of the character of a witness, as provided in rules 607, 608,

609.

13. (B) Choices (C) and (D) are wrong because  F.R.E. 405(b) provides that "in cases in
which character or a trait of character of a person is an essential element of a charge, claim
or defense, proof may be made by specific instances of that person's conduct." The "key"
question is whether Jabber's testimony is limited for impeachment or may be admitted sub-
stantively as proof of character. According to McCormick, a person's character may be a
material fact that under the substantive law determines rights and liabilities of the parties. For
example, in an action of defamation for a publication to the effect that plaintiff's character is
bad, the publisher may raise the defense that the statement is true.  Evidence, pg. 551.
Similarly, Lavin is suing the newspaper for defamation based upon an article describing
"Lavin as a bad role model." The testimony by Jabber should be admissible substantively
because it relates to the truth of the assertion, which, in turn, would provide the newspaper
with a valid defense. Choice (B) therefore "trumps" (A). Note, too, that (A) is wrong because
it states that Jabber's testimony is admissible only for purposes of impeachment.

EVIDENCE	

4

pstabie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

14. (B) A trial for fraud is a criminally-related civil proceeding. As a general rule, character
evidence is not admissible in a civil case unless character is "in issue". According to  F.R.E.
405 character is "in issue" if it is an essential element of a charge, claim or defense. For the
exam purposes, remember that character is generally "in issue" and thus admissible in the
following civil actions: (1) defamation, (2) fraud or deceit, (3) negligent entrustment, and
(4) tortious assault and battery when the defendant claims he acted in self-defense.  In
regard to a fraud or deceit action, the defendant's character for honesty is "in issue".
Therefore, Milligan may introduce evidence to show his character trait for honesty. Choice
(B) is therefore correct. Note that (A) is wrong because in a fraud action, it is the defendant's
character trait for honesty, not truthfulness, that is "in issue".

F.R.E. 405
Methods of Proving Character When Character Is "In Issue"

RULE 405 — METHODS OF PROVING CHARACTER

(a) Reputation or opinion.  In all cases in which evidence of character or a trait of a person is
admissible, proof may be made by testimony as to reputation or by testimony in the form of an
opinion. On cross-examination, inquiry is allowable into relevant specific instances of conduct.

(b)

Specific instances of conduct.  In cases in which character or a trait of character of a person is
an essential element of a charge, claim, or defense, proof may also be made of specific instances
of his conduct.

15. (B) Impeachment and character evidence are probably the two most confusing and dif-
ficult areas in Evidence. Of the 33 Evidence questions on the MBE, approximately 6 or 7
will deal with impeachment and character evidence. In this regard, you must first deter-
mine if the question deals with the impeachment of a witness or whether a person's char-
acter is in issue. If it is an impeachment question, you must apply and be totally familiar
with Fed. Rules 608 and 609. Conversely, if you are confronted with a character evidence
question, you should apply Fed. Rules 404 and 405. Here, the prosecution is attempting
to impeach the credibility of witness-Reno by extrinsic evidence. According to F.R.E. 608,
"specific instances of the conduct of a witness, for the purpose of attacking or support-
ing the witness' credibility, may not be proved by extrinsic evidence."  Therefore, choice
(B) is correct. Choice (A) is less preferred because even if Reno were questioned about the
matter on cross-examination, proof by extrinsic evidence would nonetheless still be
disallowed.

16. (B) This is an extremely "tricky" Multistate Evidence question dealing with impeach-
ment by bias. Many students will choose the "Pavlov dog" response answer (A) by erro-
neously thinking that the question relates to impeachment by specific instances of conduct
under Fed. Rule 608. When impeaching by evidence of specific instances of conduct (or
prior bad acts), extrinsic evidence is  not permitted. Fed. Rule 608 states that "specific
instances of the conduct of a witness, for the purpose of attacking or supporting his cred-
ibility, other than conviction of crime, may not be proved by extrinsic evidence." On the
other hand, extrinsic evidence is permitted to impeach a witness by showing bias.  Lilly
points out that "courts generally permit the impeaching party to prove bias either through
cross-questions or by adducing extrinsic evidence, either from witnesses or documents."
Evidence, pg. 358. Therefore, choice (B) is correct.

paid's*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

EVIDENCE

17.

18.

(A) Under F.R.E. 609 (a)(2), "For purposes of attacking the credibility of a witness,
evidence that he has been convicted of a crime shall be admitted if elicited from him or
established by public record during cross-examination but only if the crime (2) involved
dishonesty or false statement, regardless of the punishment." The only way a conviction of
a misdemeanor can be used to impeach a witness under this rule is  if the misdemeanor
involves dishonesty or false statement.  Since battery does not, the prosecution may not
question Wiggins regarding this prior conviction. Choice (A) is thus correct. Note that (B)
is wrong because the "balancing test" under  F.R.E. 609 only applies to convictions more
than 10 years old.

(B) According to F.R.E. 609(2), evidence of conviction of a crime shall not be admissi-
ble if a period of more than 10 years has elapsed except at the discretion of the court. Rather
than exclude all convictions over 10 years old, the court may admit such convictions upon a
determination that the probative value substantially outweighs the danger of unfair prejudice.
Note that choice (A) is wrong because a single conviction that occurred 14 years ago does  not
establish a common scheme or plan.

MIMIC RULE:

Motive

(Answer Choice A)

Intent

Mistake (absence of)

Identity

Common scheme

19.

(A) Under F.R.E. 613 "extrinsic evidence of a prior or inconsistent statement by a witness
is not admissible unless the witness is afforded an opportunity to explain or deny the same and
the opposite party is afforded an opportunity to interrogate him thereon, or the interests of jus-
tice otherwise require. This provision does not apply to admission of a party-opponent as
defined in Rule 801 (d)(2). Nettie's statement made to Patrolman Paye in the police report will
not be admissible substantively, so choices (B) and (C) are incorrect. As such, choice (A) is
the best answer because Nettie's statement is being admitted as a prior inconsistent statement
for impeachment purposes not as substantive evidence.

20.

(B) A vicarious admission is a statement by an employee or agent, made within the scope
of the employment relationship, that is being offered against the employer. The facts state that
Owens, Aamco's employee, made a statement to the chief inspector for OSHA. That statement
was contained within an OSHA accident report. Since the OSHA accident report was a public
record, the correct answer is (B).

21. (A) In some cases, an out-of-court statement which asks a question (e.g., "What time is
it?") is not hearsay because no assertion of a fact is intended by the declarant. However, if a
question also includes an assertion of a fact which is offered for its truth, then it presents a
hearsay issue. For example, suppose a defendant in custody says to the arresting officer, "Will
I get the death penalty for murdering my wife?" As long as the statement is voluntary and not
the product of custodial interrogation, Defendant's question would be admissible as an admis-
sion. By analogy, Natelson's question to his insurance agent does contain a statement of fact
regarding his driving recklessly. As a result, it qualifies as an admission. Therefore, choice (A)
is correct.

EVIDENCE	

6

psiabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

22.

23.

24.

25.

(A) Manley's statement on the morning of the accident would be admissible as an
admission. Admissions are the words or acts of a party-opponent (or his predecessor or
representative) which are offered against him. According to the familiar phrase, "anything
that you say may be used against you." Note that choice (A) is correct because an admis-
sion is not hearsay. Although choice (B) is also arguably correct,  an admission is a
stronger grounds for admissibility than a hearsay exception. On the essays, on the other
hand, you would discuss both the admission and the hearsay exception for the existing
state of mind issue.

(A) Federal Rule 803 (3) provides a hearsay exception, without regard to unavailabil-
ity of the declarant, for a "statement of the declarant's then existing state of mind, emo-
tion, sensation... (such as intent, plan, motive, design, mental feeling)..." Such statements
are admissible substantively to prove the declarant's state of mind when that state of mind
is at issue. Declarant Zooman's statement will be admissible to show his state of mind the
day before he was killed. Choice (A) is correct. Note however that Choice (D) presents the
difficult issue of whether state of mind can be linked with proof of subsequent conduct, i.e.
that Zooman planned to go to Chicago to pay Asher money he owed and that Asher had
threatened the victim's life. According to McCormick, admissibility of declarations of
state of mind to prove subsequent conduct in a homicide case present a more complex
problem. Although Rule 803 (3) provides no basis to restrict admission of threats by
others...and therefore the testimony will be admissible...typical cases hold that the decla-
rations themselves are insufficient to support the finding of subsequent conduct of another
unless admitted in corroboration of other evidence. The court can also restrict admissibil-
ity to the issue of victim's state of mind through the use of a limiting instruction.
McCormick on Evidence, 4th Ed. p. 484-5.

(A) The hearsay rule forbids evidence of out-of-court assertions to prove the truth of the
facts asserted in them. If the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is not hearsay.  A
few of the common types of nonhearsay utterances include: (a) verbal acts; (b) statements
offered to show effect on the hearer or listener; and (c) statements offered as circumstantial
evidence of declarant's state of mind. Here, we have an example of nonhearsay because the
statement ("Watch out buddy you're going to step on that piece of fish") is being offered to
show its effect on Yamato. Namely, he disregarded the warning which is relevant on the issue
of his contributory negligence.

(D) This difficult Evidence question deals with the evidentiary use of a statement
incorporated in an item seized during a warrantless search. Choice (A) is an incorrect rea-
son to admit the statement Nicolette made in her diary. Even though the diary was lawfully
seized under the "plain view" exception to the warrant requirement and would not be sub-
ject to the exclusionary rule, the diary, (i.e., the writing itself) is not what is being offered
into evidence. Rather, the prosecution is offering the testimony of Officer O'Brien  as to
what the declarant, Nicolette, stated in her diary. The decedent's statement is being offered
to prove that Carruth threatened to kill her, and therefore it is hearsay. Since no exceptions
apply, choice (D) is the correct answer. Note that choice (B) is incorrect because Officer
O'Brien did not have firsthand knowledge of the contents of the diary. Simply reading
what someone else wrote and remembering it well enough to testify does not constitute
firsthand knowledge.

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7	

EVIDENCE

26. (D)	

Hearsay is defined under F.R.E. 801(c) as "a statement, other than one made by the
declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the
matter asserted." Templer's testimony as to declarant Pignatano's out-of-court reply to the
nurse's question is hearsay since it is being offered for its truth, namely to prove that defen-
dant Doucette's car ran a red light. By process of elimination, choice (D) is correct.
Pignatano's reply is inadmissible as hearsay, since no exceptions apply. First of all, choice (A)
is incorrect because under F.R.E. 803(4) a statement made for purposes of medical diagnosis
or treatment must describe "medical history, or past or present symptoms, pain, or sensations,
or the inception or general character of the cause or external source thereof insofar as reason-
ably pertinent to diagnosis or treatment." However, statements pointing to persons responsi-
ble for the condition are considered irrelevant to medical diagnosis or treatment and do not
fall within the exception. Federal Rules of Evidence Manual  p.830. Pignatano's statement
implicated Doucette and will therefore be inadmissible as a statement relating to the cause of
the accident. Choice (B) is incorrect because under  F.R.E. 803(1), a present sense impression
must describe or explain an event or condition  while the declarant was perceiving the event or
condition or immediately thereafter.  Here Pignatano's statement was made in the emergency
room following  the accident. Choice (C) is incorrect because the presence of a non-essential
third person such as Templer would destroy whatever confidentiality existed between
Pignatano and the nurse, and thus have the effect of making the statement admissible.

APPROACH TO HEARSAY

Procedure

a. Analyze the out-of-court statement; 	

b. Determine who is the  declarant;	

c. Find the purpose for which the statement is offered 	
(i.e., substantively for its truth or merely to impeach
and attack credibility);

Basis

FRE 801(a)

FRE 801(b)

FRE 801(c)(d)

d. Apply hearsay exceptions, if possible 	

FRE 803 and 804

27. (D) In this case Doucette is the out-of-court declarant proposing to testify as to the truth
of the matter asserted that she (Doucette) drove through a green light. As in the previous
example, the statement itself is hearsay and will he inadmissible since no exceptions apply.
Choice (D) is therefore correct. Choice (A) is incorrect because Doucette is proposing to
testify in-court as to what she said at another prior time out-of-court. Doucette's prior state-
ment is therefore hearsay, despite the fact that she is both the witness as well as the out-of-
court declarant. By the same reasoning, choice  (B) is incorrect because Doucette is not
testifying as to firsthand knowledge but rather as to an out-of-court statement. Note that
Doucette's testimony is not a prior consistent statement because Pignatano's proposed reply
in the previous question will not be admissible since it is hearsay. Choice (C) is incorrect
because amnesia does not per se render Pignatano incompetent under the federal rules.
Furthermore, had Pignatano's testimony been admissible, Doucette could have contradicted
such testimony. Finally, learn to keep the parties straight no matter how much the examiners
try to trick you—note that it is Doucette attempting to contradict Pignatano, not vice versa as
answer choice (C) suggests.

EVIDENCE	

8

plash.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST


28.

29.

30.

(C)	
According to the best evidence principle, sometimes referred to as the "original
document" rule, in proving the terms of a writing, where the terms are material, the orig-
inal writing must be produced unless it is shown to be unavailable for some reason other
than the serious fault of the proponent. In the present example, the name on the license
is in issue. It is important to point out that Officer White is proposing to testify that the
name on the license was that of Bryon Dickerson. Here, the contents of the license (which
is the writing relied upon for purposes of the Best Evidence Rule) are in issue. As a result,
choice (C) is correct because the license itself must be produced into evidence as the "best
evidence" of the terms or contents contained therein. Note choice (B) is wrong because
Officer White is, in fact, testifying to the contents of the license. Therefore, the name on
the license is in issue to determine the identity of the driver of the vehicle.

(A)	
If a regularly-kept entry is admissible to show certain facts or events, the  absence of
an entry (that normally would be made if an event occurred) may have probative force to
show that the event did not occur. To illustrate, if the ABC company routinely records ship-
ments of goods that are prepaid, the absence of an entry pertaining to certain goods indicates
that there was no prepayment. Although choice (B) is a true statement, alternative (A) is better
because the "key" issue is whether North was a CIA agent. The fact that  his name does not
appear in the CIA employment record  is dispositive of that issue. On the other hand, choice
(B) simply addresses the fact that Casey reviewed the records. Choice (C) is incorrect because
absence of a record is a hearsay exception.

(B)	
F.R.E. 803(6), commonly known as the "business records exception," excludes from
the hearsay rule, even though the declarant is available, the following: "A memorandum,
report, record, or data compilation, in any form, of acts, events, conditions, opinions, or diag-
noses, made at or near the time by, or from information transmitted by, a person with knowl-
edge, if kept in the course of a regularly conducted business activity, and if it was the regular
practice of that business activity to make the memorandum, report, record, or data compila-
tion, all as shown by the testimony of the custodian or other qualified witness, unless the
source of information or the method or circumstances of preparation indicate a lack of trust-
worthiness. The term 'business' as used in this paragraph includes business, institution, asso-
ciation, profession, occupation, and calling of every kind, whether or not conducted for
profit." For a business record to be admissible, a foundation must be laid to authenticate the
writing. However, note that the declarant of the entry need not testify. The business record
may be introduced either by the  custodian or a reliable qualified witness with personal
knowledge.  Thus, in United States v. Henneberry, 719 F.2d 711 (4th Cir. 1983), the Court held
the testimony of a warehouse manager sufficient to lay the foundation for the introduction of
bills of lading as business records. Since Madden received the invoice from the shipping clerk
as part of his regular business responsibilities, his authenticating testimony (despite the lack
of firsthand knowledge) is sufficient to allow receipt of the shipping invoice into evidence.
Choice (B) is thus correct.

31.

(B)	
In Dr. Dee's criminal prosecution for income tax evasion, the document offered by
the government will be admissible as an admission by a party-opponent. Choice (B) is cor-
rect because the document has been properly authenticated by other evidence establishing
that it was written in Dr. Dee's handwriting, and the ledger of cash receipts is highly
relevant to the cause of action of income tax evasion. Choice (C) is incorrect because
admissions are defined as nonhearsay under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Choice (D) is
incorrect because the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination only applies to
evidence that is testimonial in nature (i.e. not a ledger). Choice (A) is very close, but not

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

EVIDENCE

32.

33.

the best answer. It has not been established in the facts that the document was prepared in
the ordinary course of business or that it was the regular practice of Dr. Dee to keep such
a separate ledger for unreported cash receipts. The government tried to lay the necessary
foundation for the business record by asking Dr. Dee to describe his system of book-
keeping, but he refused to testify. Nevertheless, the ledger will still be admissible as an
admission.

(D) It is imperative that students "focus" their attention on the interrogatory or "call of
the question." This question deals with the admissibility of "Simpson's testimony relating to
what she heard over the police-bank radio." Consequently, choice (A) is wrong because in
order to have firsthand knowledge, the witness must have actually observed the event which
she is testifying to. Simpson is not testifying to what she saw but rather what she heard.
Choice (B) is incorrect because a present sense impression is a statement which describes or
explains an event made while the declarant is observing the event or made immediately
thereafter. Again, Simpson is not testifying to what she observed but rather what she heard.
As a result, Simpson's testimony relating to the dispatcher's statement is inadmissible
hearsay because it is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted, namely that the
"red sports car was speeding."

(B) Under F.R.E. 104 (a), "Preliminary questions concerning the qualification of a
person to be a witness, the existence of a privilege, or the admissibility of evidence shall
be determined by the court..." The judge is not bound by the rules of evidence at this point,
except those with respect to privileges. To the extent that these inquiries are factual, the
judge acts as a trier of fact. The judge's decision is final and is not subject to a contrary
determination by the jury. On the other hand, the jury is to determine how much, if any,
probative value or "weight" to accord to the admitted evidence, as well as to decide issues
of credibility, (i.e. whether to believe, wholly or in part, the witness's testimony). The
judge not only decides factual issues, but also determines the applicability of any techni-
cal evidentiary rules. He decides, for example, if a dying declarant had a sense of impend-
ing death; if an entry was made promptly in the regular course of business; if there was the
necessary state of excitement to qualify a declaration as an excited utterance; if a witness
is unavailable; or if an original document is unavailable so as to justify the admission of a
copy under the best evidence rule. Lilly, Law of Evidence, 2d Ed., p. 459. Finally, stu-
dents must note that preliminary questions of fact are ordinarily resolved in both criminal
and civil trials by using a preponderance of the evidence standard. Quinella's testimony as
to Electra's statement will be admissible as a dying declaration if the judge by a prepon-
derance of the evidence determines Electra believed her death was imminent. Choice  (B)
is correct.

34. (A) An excited utterance, under F.R.E. 803(2), is defined as a statement relating to a
startling event or condition made while the declarant was under the stress of excitement
caused by the event or condition. Jay's testimony as to Zack's statement  moments after he
was stabbed will be admissible as an excited utterance. Choice (A) is correct. Choice (B)
is incorrect because a dying declaration under  F.R.E. 804(b), which applies to all civil
actions and criminal homicide proceedings, requires a statement of an  unavailable declar-
ant made while under a belief of impending death, concerning the cause or circumstances
of the impending death. Since Zack was present at trial, there is no unavailability.

EVIDENCE	

10

posalw

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

Multistate Nuance Chart:
EVIDENCE

HEARSAY EXCEPTIONS

Fed. Rule 803

Fed. Rule 804

(Availability of Declarant Immaterial)

(Declarant must be Unavailable)

1.

former testimony (given as a witness at
another hearing or in a deposition)

2. dying declaration (statement made by
declarant while believing that his death
was imminent offered in a prosecution for
homicide or in a civil proceeding)

3.

4.

statement against interest (contrary to the
declarant's (a) penal, (b) pecuniary or
(c) proprietary interest

statement of pedigree (such as those con-
cerning the declarant's birth, adoption,
marriage, divorce, legitimacy or ancestry)

1. present sense impression

2. excited utterance

3.

statement of declarant's existing state of
mind, emotion or physical condition
(such as intent, plan, motive, mental feel-
ing, pain and bodily health)

4. statements for medical diagnosis or

treatment

recorded recollection

records of regularly conducted business
activity

5.

6.

7. public records and reports (such as
records, reports or data compilations of
public offices or agencies)

8.

9.

records of vital statistics (such as records
of births, deaths or marriages)

family records (such as inscriptions on
family portraits or tombstones)

10. ancient documents

11. learned treatises

12. records of religious organizations

13. marriage, baptismal, and similar certifi-

cates

14. market reports, commercial publications

15. statements in documents affecting an

interest in property

35. (A) F.R.E. 803 (1) provides a hearsay exception for "A statement describing or explain-
ing an event or condition made while the declarant was perceiving the event or condition or
immediately thereafter". The central idea is that the statement follows the perception of the
event closely enough in time to render deliberate falsification and memory defects unlikely.
At the time when Heidi, an eyewitness, saw the car leave the scene of the accident she wrote
down the license plate number on a matchbook. This written assertion is an out-of-court state-
ment being offered to prove that the plate number of defendant's vehicle matched the number
written on the matchbook. The matchbook entry will be admissible as a present sense impres-
sion. Choice (A) is the correct answer. Note that one reason why Choice  (B) is incorrect is
because under the hearsay exception for past recollection recorded it is testimony that is being
admitted, not a writing as we have in this question.

psubt

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

EVIDENCE

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

(B) This same issue dealing with statements against interest was tested last year on the
MBE. Many students will be steered away from the correct answer because Huggins was
present at trial. With respect to hearsay exceptions under F.R.E. 804, unavailability is
required. In this regard, it is important to point out that  a witness is rendered unavailable
if he or she simply refuses  to testify despite all appropriate judicial pressure to do so. Note
that choice (A) is wrong because Huggins, the declarant, is not the defendant but a witness
in the criminal trial.

(A) Former testimony is defined under F.R.E. 804(b) as "Testimony given as a witness at
another hearing of the same or a different proceeding, or in a deposition taken in compliance
with law in the course of the same or another proceeding, if the party against whom the testi-
mony is now offered, or in civil action or proceeding, a predecessor in interest, had an oppor-
tunity and similar motive to develop the testimony by direct, cross, or redirect examination"
...if the declarant is unavailable as a witness. Choice (A) is correct because defendant Stowe,
the party against whom the deposition is being offered, deposed the deceased (i.e., unavail-
able) declarant, Vail. At that time, Stowe had the opportunity to examine Vail, thereby satis-
fying the requirements for admissibility of former testimony. Choice (B) is incorrect because
the "residual" exception does apply. Choice (C) is incorrect because a defendant's right to
confrontation allows an accused in a criminal case the right to effectively confront and cross-
examine those who testify against him at trial.

(C) One of the oldest exceptions to the hearsay rule encompasses  statements concerning
family history,  such as the date and place of births and deaths of members of the family and
facts about marriage, descent, and relationship. Under  F.R.E. 803 (13) "statements of fact
concerning personal or family history contained in family Bibles, genealogies, charts, engrav-
ings on rings, inscriptions on family portraits, engravings on urns, crypts, or tombstones" are
admitted. Note that the photocopy of Gersten's birth certificate would be admissible under
F.R.E. 1003 since a duplicate is admissible to the same extent as the original. Choice  (D) is
incorrect because the affidavit from Geraldo is inadmissible hearsay since it is an out-of-court
statement that is being offered for its truth.

(C) Under the "learned treatise" exception to the hearsay rule, the Federal Rules allow
the use of learned materials in the cross-examination of an expert witness. The rule extends to
published treatises, periodicals, or pamphlets on a subject of history, medicine, or other
science or art. Note that choice (C) is correct because the exception for learned treatises is not
limited to the context of impeachment but is also admissible as substantive evidence.

(B) According to the "learned treatise" exception to the hearsay rule, virtually all
courts have permitted the use of learned materials in the cross-examination of an expert
witness. F.R.E. 803 (18) provides that "if admitted, the statements may be read into evi-
dence but may not be received as exhibits."  Consequently, choice (B) is correct.

(A) F.R.E. 612 clearly states that "Except as otherwise provided...if a witness uses a writ-
ing to refresh his memory for the purpose of testifying, either (1) while testifying, or (2)
before testifying, if the court in its discretion determines it is necessary in the interest of
justice, an adverse party is entitled to have the writing produced at the hearing, to inspect it,

EVIDENCE	

12

potable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

to cross-examine the witness thereon, and to introduce in evidence those portions which relate
to the testimony of the witness." Refreshing may be accomplished by handing the writing to
the witness accompanied by a request to the witness to read the writing to himself. Thereupon
counsel retrieves the writing and repeats the question. At this point, the witness testifies from
his own jogged present recollection. In this question, Mr. Bentley's present recollection has
been exhausted since he is unable to remember the name of the fifth person who attended the
meeting to terminate Reed's employment contract. Use of the handwritten notes prepared by
examining counsel in her pretrial interview is a proper attempt to refresh Mr. Bentley's recol-
lection. Choice (A) is correct.

Multistate Nuance Chart:

EVIDENCE

Present Recollection
Refreshed F.R.E. 612

Past Recollection
Recorded F.R.E. 803(5)

1. present recollection exhausted

1. present recollection exhausted

2. refreshing done by 1) leading ques-

tion or by 2) a writing

3. witness looks at writing; writing taken
back by counsel and witness testifies
as to present recollection

4. writing can be introduced into
evidence by opposing counsel for
impeachment

2.

3.

refreshing attempted and fails to jog
memory

looks at writing; then writing read into
evidence

4. writing NOT admitted into evidence
unless offered by opposing counsel
substantively

42.

43.

(D) In Taylor's personal injury action against Collins, her witness, Smithfield, is offering
into evidence a computer printout from his sophisticated electronic weathering device mea-
suring wind speed. Regarding this computer printout, students should begin by understanding
that under F.R.E. 1001(3), "If data are stored in a computer or similar device, any printout or
other output readable by sight, is an 'original' ." There is no "best evidence" problem as to the
admissibility of the computer printout. Next, a foundation for the authenticity of the scientific
wind device must be laid. Under the  Daubert v. Merrill Dow standard, scientific evidence is
admissible where the device or principle from which the deduction is made has gained a par-
ticular degree of acceptance in the relevant community. Choice (D) is correct.

(A) According to F.R.E. 902(7), "inscriptions, signs, tags, or labels purporting to
have been affixed in the course of business and indicating ownership, control or design"
are self-authenticating. In this regard, McCormick states that a manufacturer's certificate
affords prima facie authenticity to the contents of the product.  Evidence, pg. 700. Note
that (B) is wrong because the best evidence rule applies only when the proponent is
attempting to prove the contents or terms of a writing. Here, the plaintiff is not trying to
prove the contents of writing (such as the terms of a contract) but rather is introducing the
label as prima facie evidence that Fishbone produced the can of sardines.

possboe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

EVIDENCE

44.

45.

46.

47.

(D) By process of elimination, choice (D) is the only possisble correct answer. Under
F.R.E. 901(b)(2), a person's handwriting may be authenticated by "nonexpert opinion as
to the genuineness of the handwriting based on familiarity not acquired for purposes of the
litigation". Choice (A) is therefore a correct statement. Similarly, choices (B) and (C) are
accurate statements under F.R.E. 901 since authentication may be made by "comparison
by the trier of fact or by expert witnesses with specimens which have been authenticated".
As a result, choice (D) is the best answer (and thus a false statement) since the arresting
officer's familiarity with Rosen's handwriting  was acquired for purposes of prosecution.

(B) Here is another example why the Evidence questions are among the "trickiest" on
the exam. By now, you can probably see that the Multistate exam  is not testing rote out-
line memorization,  but rather it "hones in" on very subtle nuances and fineline distinc-
tions. In this regard, students need  to differentiate between inferences and presumptions.
According to Lilly, "when a genuine presumption is accepted as true by the trier of fact, it
gives rise to a mandatory inference, which is properly called a presumed fact." Evidence,
pg. 56. Once the basic facts are believed, the resulting presumed fact must be accepted by
the trier unless it is rebutted by contravening evidence. Consequently,  in criminal cases
presumptions are disfavored and subject to close constitutional scrutiny because it tends
to shift the burden of producing evidence to the accused. On the other hand,  an inference
never has such a compulsory effect. The trier always is at liberty either to accept or
reject an inferred fact. In this regard, Lilly further states that "a presumption creates a
compulsory finding that remains obligatory until the presumed fact is rebutted." However,
this is not true of an inference, which results only in creating a jury question as to whether
the inferred fact exists. As a result, choice (B) "trumps" (A) because an inference is
favored over a presumption in criminal cases

(B) In answering this Evidence question, it is necessary to differentiate between the
marital privilege (which is the A choice) and the spousal privilege (which is the B answer).
The marital privilege protects confidential communications between the spouses made
during the marriage. The spousal privilege, on the other hand, prevents one spouse from
testifying against the other in a criminal case. The spousal privilege or incapacity blocks
adverse testimony based on knowledge gained in any way, at any time, as long as the
accused and the proposed witness are married at the time of trial. As such, the spousal priv-
ilege applies to "pre-marital" acts. Choice (B) is correct because the relevant issue regard-
ing Austin's clothing occurred before the marriage. Also, it is important to note that with
respect to the spousal privilege, it is the witness-spouse who is the holder of the privilege
not the accused.

(B) A client has a privilege to refuse to disclose and to prevent any other person from
disclosing a confidential communication made for the purpose of facilitating the rendition of
professional legal services to the client. The attorney-client privilege extends to confidential
communications made between the client and the client's lawyer or a "representative of the
lawyer." A "representative of the lawyer" is one employed by the lawyer to assist the lawyer
in the rendition of professional legal services. In this regard, confidential communications
between the defendant and a jury consultant hired by his lawyer would clearly be protected
under the attorney-client privilege.

EVIDENCE	

14

ponbi,

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

48.

49.

(C) It is important to point out that the attorney-client privilege  "protects only
the narrow right of a client to communicate confidentially with his lawyer about a
legal problem." Lilly, pg. 395. As a general rule, billing records are not protected because
the privilege applies only to the client's (confidential) statements. Although many courts
will protect a lawyer's statements, they must be made and relate to the
rendition of legal advice. Since the billing information is not a confidential communica-
tion per se, choice (C) is correct.

(D) According to F.R.E. 704, "No expert witness testifying with respect to the mental
state or condition of a defendant in a criminal case may state an opinion or inference as to
whether the defendant did or did not have the mental state or condition constituting an ele-
ment of the crime charged or a defense thereto." Such ultimate issues are matters for the
trier of fact alone. Therefore, Agent Boone  may not render an expert opinion as to the
defendant's intent to distribute narcotics.

50. (B) In accord with F.R.E. 701, if the witness is not testifying as an expert, the witness'
testimony in the form of opinions or references is limited to those opinions or inferences
which are (a) rationally based on the perception of the witness and (b) helpful to a clear under-
standing of the witness' testimony or the determination of a fact in issue. In this regard, Lilly
points out that there are numerous decisions allowing  lay opinion(s) "concerning vehicle
speed" as well as a person's "intoxication." Lilly, pg. 107.

possabze

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15	

EVIDENCE

possar

MULTIS TATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 1

Multistate Issue Graph

OVERVIEW: PROPHES

P — Probative Sufficiency R — Reliability 0 — Opinion P — Privilege H — Hearsay E — Examination S — Substitutes for Evidence

PROBATIVE SUFFICIENCY —	
must be sufficiently probative to 	
warrant admission.	

LOGICAL RELEVANCY — 
must have some tendency to	
prove or disprove a fact of	
consequence.	

LEGAL RELEVANCY — may	
not be substantially more	
prejudicial than probative.	

Similar Happenings and Transactions —  proponent must show a  substantial identity of material circumstances.
Absence of Similar Happenings (Negative Evidence) —  proponent must show (1) a substantial identity of material circumstances
and that (2) happening would have been known by witness if it occurred.
Foundation (Authentication and Identification) — proponent must offer sufficient evidence to sustain a finding that the evidence
(e.g., a writing, physical object, or voice) is  what its proponent purports it to be. FRE allows self-authentication in some cases.

Liability Insurance — inadmissible to prove negligence, but may prove disputed ownership or control and bias of witness or poten-
tial juror.
Settlements and Compromises (Including Offers) —  to encourage out-of-court settlements, inadmissible as an admission of fault
or to establish value of claim, but may explain delay or show bias.
Subsequent Remedial Measures — to encourage safety measures, inadmissible to prove negligence, but may prove disputed own-
ership or control and, under modern trend, that there was a defect for strict liability.
Character Evidence — reputation, specific instances of conduct, or personal opinion  bearing on character or propensity is inadmis-
sible to prove conduct consistent therewith except if  habit or, in criminal cases only, if mercy rule or prosecutor's rule applies. May
be used to prove (1) character, if an essential element of the case; (2) relevant knowledge of another's character, or (3) to impeach
a testifying witness (subject to limitations on extrinsic evidence).
Impeachment — witness may be asked questions which tend to discredit (intrinsic impeachment), but  extrinsic evidence of bad
character may be used to impeach only if in the form of conviction or it is relevant to a material matter beyond witness credibility.

RELIABILITY — must	
meet a minimal thresh-   BEST EVIDENCE RULE (ORIGINAL WRITING RULE) —  when the contents of a writing are in issue,  the original (includes reliable photocopy under FRE) must be  produced or
old of trustworthiness.

WITNESS COMPETENCY — FRE abandons mental and moral prerequisites, defects go to weight, common law disqualifies a witness if court finds witness cannot (1)  accurately
recount the facts and give meaningful testimony,  or (2) understand the significance of the obligation to tell the truth.
SCIENTIFIC DEVICES AND TESTS — proponent must establish that (1) device or theory is  recognized and accepted in the relevant scientific community;  (2) the device used was
in proper working order; and (3) device was operated and interpreted by a qualified person.

shown to be unavailable. Contents are in issue if (1) writing has independent legal significance, (2) proponent offers a writing, or (3) witness testimony is dependent on the contents
of writing.
DEADMAN'S ACT — abandoned under FRE and many states; where it applies, it prevents testimony as to a transaction with a now deceased or incompetent party unless the testi-
mony is corroborated by independent evidence.

OPINION	

PRIVILEGE	

LAY OPINION — non-experts may give sensory opinions within common experience so long as there is a sufficient opportunity to perceive; quasi-experts may give moderate expert-type
opinions if sufficient foundation is laid.
EXPERT OPINION — expert opinion may be given if (1) it assists the fact finder (many states require that the opinion be necessary, i.e., relate to matters beyond common understanding),
(2) the witness is qualified as an expert, and (3) the opinion is within the state of the art of the field of expertise. May be based on matters not in evidence and inadmissible matter if of the
type relied on by reasonable experts: expert may be cross-examined regarding contents of authoritative treatise (common law requires reliance).

RELATIONSHIP — communication must be made as part of a statutorily designated relationship, no requirement of fee or acceptance of case if communicator was seeking professional
advice or treatment. Minority view — reasonable belief that relationship exists is sufficient.
COMMUNICATION — except in special circumstances, only verbal communications are protected, not observations or impressions (but separate  spousal privilege prevents testimony as
to any matter, not just revelation of a confidential communication).
CONFIDENTIALITY —  presence of inessential person not otherwise privileged precludes privilege (persons who advance the purpose of the privilege such as doctors or investigators
employed to aid a lawyer are protected by privilege).
HOLDER — only holder may waive privilege, privilege may be asserted by another  on holder's behalf, but holder controls.
WAIVER — holder permanently loses privilege as to communications voluntarily revealed by him or by another if holder fails to object when he had an opportunity to do so.
EXCEPTIONS — privilege not available in suits between persons in the protected relationship; joint clients or where communication was made to advance a crime or fraud.

HEARSAY K	EXEMPTIONS — under the FRE, certain out-of-court statements are not hearsay even when used to prove their truth: (1) admissions, (2) prior I.D. of a testifying witness, (3) prior sworn

EXCLUSIONS — out-of-court assertion admissible for a relevant purpose not dependent on its truth:  (1) state of mind of the declarant or listener (2) prior statement to impeach, or (3)
rehabilitate verbal event.

statements inconsistent with courtroom testimony;  (4) prior consistent statements used to rebut inference of recent fabrication or undue influence.
EXCEPTIONS — Admissions, Declaration against interest, Dying declaration, Excited utterance, Mental state exception. Physical sensation. Business record, Official written statement,
Past recollection recorded, Prior recorded testimony. Sense impressions, Expert exception, Equivalency exception.

EXAMINATION C 

DIRECT EXAMINATION — look out for: (1) leading, (2) narrative, (3) assuming facts, (4) compound, and (5) argumentative.
CROSS-EXAMINATION — must generally be within scope of direct exam; leading questions proper.

SUBSTITUTES	
FOR EVIDENCE	

JUDICIAL NOTICE — no formal proof required for: (1) state and federal laws and regulations; (2) universally known facts, or (3) facts subject to undisputed verification.
PRESUMPTIONS — directs the jury's fact finding process by a special instruction;  FRE and majority — presumption only shifts burden of producing evidence to party opposing presumed
fact; in some states, certain presumptions based on a strong public policy shift burden of persuasion to opponent of presumed fact.




ose SPECIALIST
'Rate

MULTISTATE

EVIDENCE
MIG 2

Multistate Issue Graph

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE —  fact to be proved must be
inferred from other facts; admissible if it has some tendency to
prove or disprove a fact of consequence.  Is fact to be proved more
likely with the evidence than it was without it?

WRITINGS

CONNECTING EVIDENCE (AUTHENTICATION
OR IDENTIFICATION) —  evidence must be
authenticated or identified as a condition
precedent to admissibility by the offer of prelimi-
nary facts sufficient to support a finding that the
matter in question is what its proponent claims.
FRE 901(a).

VOICES

LOGICAL RELEVANCY

SIMILAR ACCIDENTS OR INJURIES — may prove dangerousness of a particular condition or knowledge of that condi-
tion by prior or subsequent similar happenings if  a substantial identity of all material circumstances  is shown — burden is
on proponent to lay foundation.
SIMILAR CONTRACTS OR TRANSACTIONS —  to prove or clarify the terms of a transaction or agreement, proponent
may offer evidence of similar but unrelated transactions with opposing party, but not with third parties (some cases have
allowed third party evidence as court has broad discretion).
NEGATIVE EVIDENCE — proponent may prove that other similar happenings did  not occur to prove safety of a particular
condition or no notice if proponent shows (1)  a substantial identity of material circumstances  with respect to evidence,
and (2) that happening would have been observed by witness if it had occurred.
OTHER INFERENCES MAY BE EQUALLY OR MORE PLAUSIBLE —  evidence need only have some tendency to prove
fact sought; close questions tend to be resolved in favor of admission.

Personal Knowledge — testimony from any witness with personal knowledge that the writing was prepared by the per-
son claimed. FRE 901(b)(1).
Identification of Handwriting — non-expert opinion as to genuineness based on familiarity not acquired for purposes of
litigation, FRE 901(b)(2), or comparison with an authenticated exemplar by a qualified expert or the trier of fact.
FRE 901(b)(3).
Circumstantial Evidence —  evidence indicating that information revealed or matters stated in the writing tend to identify
the source as a particular person or firm (sometimes called the "reply message" doctrine), based on notion that the
contents, other than direct statements of self-identification such as signatures or letterheads, if unique, can create a
sufficient inference as to who prepared the writing. Do not confuse with forms of self-authentication. FRE 901(b)(4).
Public Records or Reports — evidence that a purported public record was in the custody of the proper public office.
FRE 901 (b)(7). Includes electronic data.
Ancient Writing — evidence that a writing (1) is in such a condition as to create no suspicion regarding its authenticity,
(2)was in a place where, if authentic, it should likely be,  and (3) it is at least 20 years old. FRE 901(8). Common law
required 30 years. Note, there is also a hearsay exception for properly authenticated ancient writings. FRE 803(16).
Self-Authentication — extrinsic evidence of authenticity is not required with respect to a number of special writings
including (1) public documents if sealed or certified, (2) official publications purportedly issued by public authority,
(3)newspapers and periodicals  indicating publisher, (4) trade inscriptions such as tags, labels, or signs purporting to
indicate origin, ownership, or control, and which were affixed in the course of business, (5)  acknowledged documents,
(6) commercial paper, and (7) documents identified by statutory presumption. FRE 902.

Personal Knowledge — testimony from any witness who heard the statement, saw the speaker, and has personal
knowledge of the identify of the speaker. FRE 901(b)(1).
Identification of Voice — where speaker is unseen or unknown, an opinion identifying a voice based upon hearing the
voice under circumstances connecting it with the alleged speaker (whether heard first-hand, by recording, or telephone),
or by comparison by an expert or the trier of fact with an authenticated examplar of the voice. FRE 901(b)(3), (4).
Distinctive Characteristics — evidence of unique contents, internal patterns, or other distinctive characteristics (e.g.,
accent) taken in conjunction with the circumstances. FRE 901(b)(4).
Special Rule for Telephone Conversations —  in addition to the above methods, a person can be identified by evidence
that (1) a telephone call was made to a number assigned to that person by the telephone company, and (2) circum-
stances including self-identification, show the person answering to be the one called. FRE 901(b)(6)(A). In the case of a
business, (1) evidence that a call was made to a number assigned to the business by the telephone company,  and (2)
the conversation related to business reasonably transacted over the telephone.  FRE 901(b)(6)(B).

PHYSICAL OBJECTS — physical objects such as guns, heroin, etc., may be identified as above including: (1)  personal knowledge — testimony
recognizing the object to be what it purports to be; (2) distinctive characteristics or markings; and (3) chain of possession —  testimony accounting
for objects' whereabouts from point of incident at issue until trial (must also show no likelihood of tampering).

post so

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 3

Multistate Issue Graph

LEGAL RELEVANCY

Otherwise relevant evidence is inadmissible if, taken as a whole, its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of (1) unfair prejudice, (2) confu-
sion of the issues, (3) misleading the jury, or by (4) considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence. FRE 403. 

DISCRETIONARY EXCLUSION

TYPICAL PROBLEMS – gruesome evidence (e.g., gory color photos, blood-stained objects),  statistical probabilities, prior bad acts used to impeach a criminal defendant-witness  (even if permitted under charac-
ter and impeachment rules).

FACTORS

LIMITING INSTRUCTION – is it likely that cautionary instruction will protect against improper inference?
ALTERNATIVES – are there less offensive ways of proving the same facts available to proponent?
MATERIALITY – is the evidence directed toward a critical central issue or merely toward background or corroborative facts? (The more important the evidence, the more likely it is to be
admitted since probative value is higher.)
NATURE OF RISK – will admission of the evidence create a risk of convicting an innocent person? (Exclusion is most likely upon objection of a criminal defendant.)

MANDATORY EXCLUSION
Special statutory or common law rules specifically prohibiting certain forms of evidence to be used to prove certain facts.

LIABILITY INSURANCE – evidence that a person was or was not insured for liability at the time of an injury is inadmissible for th epurpose of proving that such person acted negligently or wrongfully.  Admissible
to prove other relevant facts: (1)  agency, (2) ownership or control (if disputed), (3) bias or prejudice of a witness (e.g., witness employed by insurance company liable for judgment rendered). FRE 411.  Rationale:
evidence tempts fact finder to improperly consider ability-to-pay and possibly "deep pocket" of insurance company.

SUBSEQUENT REMEDIAL MEASURES – evidence of a remedial measure, taken or authorized by a civil defendant
after the occurrence of an injury, is inadmissible for the purpose of proving negligence or culpable conduct of the
defendant. Admissible to prove other relevant facts: (1) ownership or control (if disputed), (2) feasibility of precaution-
ary measures (if disputed), and (3) impeachment of defendant's testimony. FRE 407.  Rationale: to encourage persons
to make products and premises as safe as they can be made by removing chance that remedial act will be used as an
admission.

ACTUAL OR ATTEMPTED COMPROMISE – evidence respecting an actual settlement of a disputed claim or an
attempt to compromise such claim (including any statement made during compromise negotations) is inadmissible to
prove the validity or value of the claim. Admissible to prove other relevant facts: (1)  bias of a witness, (2) explain delay
(if undue delay is claimed), and (3)  obstruction of justice. FRE 408. Rationale: to encourage out-of-court settlement of
disputes.

REMEDIAL MEASURE – includes repairs, changes in procedure, termination or
additional training of employee, adoption of rule or other improvement tending to
make a product or condition safer.
PRODUCTS LIABILITY ACTION –  recent state cases hold that rule does not bar
use of evidence of subsequent design changes as evidence of "defect' in a prod-
ucts liability case since cause of action does not require showing of negligence or
culpable conduct.

FINAL SETTLEMENT – rule only excludes statements or acts directed at a final
resolution of a dispute; it does not exclude payments of or offers to pay for dam-
ages unless meant as a mutually binding settlement (see below re: medical
expenses).
EXCLUDES EXPLICIT ADMISSIONS – contra to common law, the FRE bars all
statements made during good faith compromise discussions.

PAYMENT OR OFFER TO PAY MEDICAL BILLS –  evidence of the payment or offer to pay medical, hospital, or similar expenses resulting from an injury at issue is inadmissible to prove liability for the injury.
FRE 409. Common law has no analog. Note: specific admissions not necessary to the offer to pay  are admissible. Rationale: to encourage Good Samaritan payments.

PLEAS AND OFFERS TO PLEA — evidence of an offer to plead guilty, nob contendere or actual pleas later withdrawn (as well as any statements made in connection therewith) are inadmissible in any civil or
criminal case. Such evidence is admissible to impeach testimony or prove perjury, or if in the form of a  voluntary and reliable statement made on the record in court. FRE 410. Rationale: to advance the policies
of nolo contendere, plea bargaining, and to make meaningful the judicial decision to allow a plea to be withdrawn.

CHARACTER EVIDENCE (see MIG 4) –  evidence of a person's character is inadmissible to prove conduct on a particular occasion except when it is: (1) in the form of habit (invariable repeated behavior), (2)
used to impeach a witness (subject to limitations imposed by impeachment rules), or  (3) reputation or personal opinion offered by a criminal defendant to show innocence, or by the prosecutor to rebut such evi-
dence (i.e., the "Mercy Rule") and (4) specific implicating facts not derived from disposition alone  (e.g., motive, opportunity, intent, knowledge, identity, or plan). Admissible (subject to discretionary exclusion dis-
cussed above) for relevant purposes other than proving conduct: (1) character or reputation as a primary issue,  and (2) knowledge of character or disposition. FRE 404. Rationale: to prevent undue prejudice
caused by a focus on the character of a person rather than the particular facts of the litigation.

EXTRINSIC IMPEACHMENT: COLLATERAL MATTER RULE –  evidence not elicited on
cross-examination from a witness himself is inadmissible to impeach that witness unless the
impeachment goes to a material matter and, in certain cases, the witness has been, or will be
afforded, an opportunity to explain or deny the evidence.  Rationale: credibility with respect to
a nonmaterial fact is collateral; extrinsic evidence only tending discredit on a collateral matter
may confuse the issues, mislead the jury, and consume an undue amount of time.

MATERIALITY – evidence must either tend to discredit (1) the testimony as a whole by showing  bias,
defects in perception or memory, or untrustworthy character  (manifested by a conviction), or (2) testimony
about an outcome-affecting fact as by showing a material inconsistent statement.
CONFRONTATION – in order to make extrinsic impeachment a last resort, proponant normally required to
confront the witness with the evidence  prior to the offer, however, under FRE 613(b), it is sufficient to per-
mit confrontation after the evidence is admitted. No confrontation is required for the use of convictions.
CONTRADICTION – evidence admissible on a substantive issue (i.e., other than impeachment) may be
offered extrinsically regardless of its tendency to discredit a previous witness (this is so even at common
law where a party may not impeach his own witness).
MINORITY RULE – some states (e.g., California) reject Collateral Matter Rule and permit extrinsic evi-
dence on any substantive or credibility issue.

plosive

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 4

Multistate Issue Graph

CHARACTER EVIDENCE

GENERAL RULE: Evidence of a Person's Character or Disposition is Inadmissible Proof of the Conduct
of that Person on a Particular Occasion Except as Otherwise Permitted by Law.

ISSUE SPOTTING SEQUENCE: (1) Is the evidence a form of character evidence? (2) Is the evidence admissible to prove factors other than conduct?

(3) If used to prove conduct, is the evidence admissible under a specific exception to the general rule?

(1) FORMS.

(2) NON-CONDUCT USES —  Character
evidence is not excluded by the general
rule if its relevancy is not dependent on
proving specific conduct of the person
characterized.

(3) EXCEPTIONS — In the following
specific situations character evidence
may be used to prove conduct
because of special considerations
which make the evidence more proba-
tive than prejudicial.

REPUTATION — Evidence purporting to state the community reputation of a person (P); witness need not actually know P.

PERSONAL OPINION — Evidence which includes a personal opinion (as opposed to community opinion) of P's character or disposition; witness must actually know P .
OTHER ACTS — Evidence of acts done by P either prior or subsequent to the conduct at issue in the case.

CHARACTER AS AN  ULTIMATE ISSUE —All appropriate forms admissible to prove P's character where it is an essential element of: (1) a  cause of action or claim
(e.g., character of parent in child custody action; mental condition of testator in probate dispute); (2) a  defense (e.g., truth in defamation action; insanity in criminal
case); or (3) the existence or amount of damages  (e.g., reputation before and after alleged injury). FRE 405.
KNOWLEDGE OF CHARACTER — If the use of character evidence is limited to proving that one person knew or should have known of the character of another (P),
e.g., negligent entrustment, self-defense), all appropriate forms are admissible. If used to test the knowledge and qualifications of a reputation witness regarding P,
questions may be asked of witness on cross-examination as to whether he "had heard" of specific acts of P which would bear on reputation — questions must be
asked in good faith; acts may not be too remote to affect P's present reputation; court may exclude if P is a party and the question is more prejudicial than probative.

CHARACTER OF ACCUSED (MERCY RULE) —  An accused may offer either good reputation or personal opinion (but  not specific acts) which tends to prove her
innocence in a criminal case. If accused does offer good character evidence, prosecutor may rebut by evidence of bad character (but only in the form of reputation or
opinion). FRE 404(a)(1). Common law only permits reputation.

VICTIM'S CHARACTER OFFERED BY ACCUSED —  Except in rape cases, an accused may offer evidence of the character of an alleged victim in a criminal case in
the form of reputation, opinion or by specific relevant instances of conduct elicited on cross-examination. If accused does offer, prosecutor may rebut. FRE 404(a)(2).
In rape cases, reputation or opinion evidence of the victim's past sexual behavior is  not admissible but evidence of past sexual behavior (i.e., specific acts) may be
offered if: (1) acts with person other than accused tend to prove that accused was not the source of semen or injury, or (2) past acts with accused tend to show con-
sent. In both cases, accused must make a written motion and offer of proof and court shall conduct an in-chambers hearing to decide whether and to what extent the
past sexual behavior will be admitted. FRE 412.

STRONG CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE: OTHER ACTS —  In a criminal or civil action, any party may prove that a person did a specific act of a particular occasion
by character evidence in the form of specific acts if such evidence establishes: (1)  motive, (2) opportunity, (3) knowledge or intent (including absence of mistake or
accident), (4) preparation or plan, or (5) identity (as with modus operandi). FRE 404(b). Evidence is not dependent on "mere disposition" as it closely and specifically
links the person to the act in question.

HABIT — Evidence of a person's habit (i.e., invariable automatic pattern of behavior) may be used to prove conduct in conformity to the habit. FRE 406. No need for
corroboration. Considered highly probative of conduct (also applies to routine practice of an organization). FIRE 406.

WITNESS' CHARACTER RE:
CREDIBILITY — Character
evidence may be used to
impeach or rehabilitate the
testimony of a witness.
Admissibility depends on form
and whether evidence con-
forms with impeachment rules
(e.g., collateral matter rule).

REPUTATION FOR TRUTH AND VERACITY — Proper to impeach or rehabilitate if witness qualified? no special foundation
required.

PERSONAL OPINION — Permitted if witness qualified; no special foundation. FRE 608(a). Common law does  not permit.

FELONY CONVICTIONS — Name and fact of conviction of any felony permitted even if underlying crime does  not
involve dishonesty or false statement. May be elicited on cross-exam or proved extrinsically, no special founda-
tion. FRE 609.

MISDEMEANOR CONVICTIONS — Name and fact of conviction permitted but only if underlying crime involves
dishonesty or false statement. May be elicited on cross-exam or proved extrinsically, no special foundation. FRE
609. Minority (e.g., California) do not permit at all.

OTHER
ACTS

UNCONVICTED CONDUCT —  Witness may be impeached by direct evidence of specific acts by the witness
(not arrests, indictments, etc.) which bear on truthfulness or honesty,  may be elicited on cross-exam asking if
the witness actually did the act, no extrinsic evidence permitted if witness denies act.  FRE 609. Minority (e.g.,
California) do not permit use of unconvicted conduct.

REVERSED AND UNCONSTITUTIONAL CONVICTIONS — May not be used but if appeal is still pending, use
permitted.

JUVENILE CONVICTIONS — May only be used to impeach a prosecution witness in a criminal case, not the
defendant or a defense witness.

DISCRETION — Court may always exclude impeaching evidence if it is deemed more prejudicial than probative.
If a party is the witness (especially a criminal accused), court will carefully examine the probative value of convic-
tions and other acts to determine relevancy (i.e., does act relate closely enough to truthfulness or honesty, is it too
remote?). Convictions over 10 years old must be specifically examined for probative value. FIRE 609(b).



osiimp EVIDENCE

M ULTISTATE

   SPECIALIST	 MIG 5 

Multistate Issue Graph     

MINIMAL RELIABILITY

TESTIMONIAL COMPETENCE 

OATH OF AFFIRMATION — Witness must declare that he will testify truthfully, by oath or affirmation administered in a form calculated to awaken his conscience and impress his mind with the obligation to do so. FRE 603.
At common law, witness must also demonstrate that he understands the obligation to tell the truth.

PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE — A witness may not testify to a matter unless evidence is introduced sufficient to support a finding that he has personal knowledge of the matter. FRE 602.

MENTAL CAPACITY — FRE 601 abandons all common law requirements relating to capacity to perceive and tell the truth. Thus, no witness is incompetent to testify by virtue of age, mental illness (including illness directly
related to knowing and telling the truth), use of drugs or alcohol (even if shortly before testifying) or any other fact — all such facts may be used to impeach the witness and go to weight rather than admissibility. Common law is
contra requiring, on objection, a special judicial finding that the witness has the capacity to accurately observe, remember, and recount the facts.

FINANCIAL INTEREST IN OUTCOME: DEAD MAN'S RULE —  The FRE abandons the common law dead man's rule which disqualifies witnesses who have a financial interest in the outcome of a civil suit (applicable where the
opposing party is incapable of testifying because of death or mental incompetency). Many major states (e.g., New York, Florida) still retain such statutes, which differ substantially in specific provisions.

SPECIAL STATUS	

JUDGE AS A WITNESS — A judge may not testify in any trial in which he is presiding. FRE 605.
JUROR AS A WITNESS — A member of the jury may not testify as a witness in a case in which she is sitting as a juror. FRE 606(a). A juror is also incompetent to testify as to any matter or statement
occurring during the course of the jury's deliberations, nor may she testify as to any matter which influences her vote or any other juror's vote even upon an inquiry into the validity of an indictment or
verdict. Exception: May testify re: extraneous prejudicial information brought to jury's attention or whether there was an improper outside influence. FRE 606(b).
ATTORNEY AS A WITNESS — Although there are major ethical restrictions regarding the testimony of an attorney, her partner or associate in any case in which she is representing a client, an attorney
is not incompetent under the evidence rules.

BEST EVIDENCE RULE (BER): EXCLUSION OF SECONDARY EVIDENCE
In (1) proving the contents of a writing,  (2) the original writing itself (3) must be produced (4) or shown to be unavailable
(5) by the proponent of the secondary evidence (6) unless the writing refers to a collateral issue.

(1) PROVING CONTENTS OF WRITING —
BER only applies when the evidence offered is
intended to prove what the writing says; not
applicable if evidence merely seeks to estab-
lish there was a writing or if the actual precise
content of the writing is irrelevant to its eviden-
tiary value.

CONTENTS
IN ISSUE

Category 1: Writing Has Independent Legal Significance — Rights or obligations at issue arise from, and are directly affected by, the precise
content of the writing. Examples: Actions based on a will, written contract, lease; liability affected by specific written notice or disclaimer; defam-
atory writing, manuscripts and books in copyright actions; recordings of  defamatory statements or extortionate threats  where action is based on
precise words; photos or motion pictures in pornography action.
Category 2: Writing Offered as Evidence — Party puts contents of writing in issue by offering it in evidence even if writing is not of independent
legal significance. Examples: Receipt to prove payment; transcripts or mniutes to prove what was said at prior hearing or meeting; letters,
memos, notes to prove knowledge, intent, motive or attitude of author or recipient;  x-ray to prove injury. (Note: Writing must also be authenticated
and avoid hearsay rule).
Category 3: Testimony Reliant on Writing — Witness puts contents of writing in issue if his testimony is derived from what he saw in a writing,
rather than from personal knowledge of the facts evidenced by the writing (i.e., witness is merely a conduit for the writing itself).  Examples:
testimony based upon a letter, x-ray, tape recording, transcript, receipt, bank or business records.  (Note: Underlying writing is usually hearsay.)

WRITING DEFINED — Includes all forms of tangible writings, sound and electronic recordings of all forms, and photographs of all sorts including pictures, prints,
x-rays, video tapes, and motion pictures. FRE 1001(1)(2).

(2)ORIGINAL — Includes (1) the writing, recording, or photograph itself; (2) any "counterpart" of the original intended to have the same effect as the original (e.g., multiple copies of a contract); (3) any "duplicate original"
produced by the same impression as the original (e.g., carbon copies), or from the same plate or matrix (e.g., printed or mimeographed copies), or by photographic process (includes photocopies, enlargements and miniatures).
FRE 1001(3)(4). Duplicates are treated as original unless there is a  genuine question of authenticity,  or under the circumstances, the court believes it would be unfair not to require the original itself. FRE 1003. Common law
does not treat photocopies as originals unless they were made in the ordinary course of business as a business record.

(3)PRODUCED — Original need not be actually offered in evidence so long as it is produced for examination and inspection.  Example: memo qualifying for past recollection recorded may be read into evidence, but writing itself
cannot be introduced; same for portions of learned treatises used to cross-examine an expert.

(4) UNAVAILABILITY —  The BER is only a
rule of preference; if the original is not avail-
able, secondary evidence may be used.

LOST OR DESTROYED — Sufficient if all originals are lost or destroyed, so long as unavailability does not result from bad faith conduct of proponent. FRE (1004(1).
UNOBTAINABLE — Cannot be obtained by any available judicial process or procedure. FRE 1004(2).
POSSESSION OF OPPONENT —  Party now objecting was put on notice that the contents of a writing would be in issue at the time he had possession of the original
of the writing and said party does not produce the original. FRE 1004(3).
IMPRACTICALITY — If contents of voluminous writings cannot conveniently be examined in court, a chart, summary, or calculation may be presented so long as
originals were reasonably made available for inspection and copying. FRE 1006. Also, certified copies of  public records are admissible because original is
"unavailable." FRE 1005.

(5)BURDEN ON PROPONENT —  Foundational facts relating to admissibility of secondary evidence (e.g., unavailability) are to be decided by the judge. However, if there is a dispute as to (1) whether the asserted writing ever
existed at all; (2) which of several writings is in fact the original; or (3) whether the secondary evidence correctly reflects the contents of the original; the issue is for the jury to decide. FRE 1008. If original is unavailable, any
form of secondary evidence is admissible; there is no hierarchy of secondary evidence. Some states prefer written copies to oral testimony.

(6)COLLATERAL ISSUE EXCEPTION —  BER does not apply where the writing is not closely related to a controlling issue (i.e., de minimus exception). FRE 1004(4).


piaSPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 6

Multistate Issue Graph

PERSONAL PERCEPTION — knowledge
required by opinion must be  rationally
derived from personal perception.

NON-EXPERT

SPECIAL NEED — opinion must be
necessary to effective communication of
the perception or specially helpful to a
clear understanding of the facts.

OPINIONS

Adequate Opportunity to Perceive — perception must be sufficient in time and scope to justify conclusion (look out for split sec-
ond judgments and perception — impeding facts).

Exceptions — personal knowledge not required for (1) opinions of sanity by a subscribing witness or (2) opinions about oneself
including property, condition mental state, etc. (see below).

Opinions About Oneself —  relating to one's own mental state (including intent, motive, emotion),  physical or mental condition
(including nature and cause of condition, disease or illness), personal history (including name, age, parentage),  property (includ-
ing ownership and value), and value of services.

Sensory Descriptions — odors and sounds and their sources, colors, temperature, taste.

Measurements — speed, weight, height, distances in general (e.g., "fast," "heavy," "tall," "far,") or specific terms (e.g., mph,
pounds, feet and inches).

Identifications — of property or persons including distinguishing characteristics such as voice, footsteps, age.

Physical Condition of Others —  general perceptions of injury, fatigue, intoxication.

Mental Condition of Others — rationality, normality, competency and sanity, but stronger foundation of knowledge is required and
opinion must avoid legal conclusion.

Meaning of Conduct — "nodding" affirmatively, "indicating" agreement, who "started" or "provoked" a fight. Broad discretion to
exclude opinions of this type.

EXPERT

RANGE OF COMMON EXPERIENCE —  opinion must be about a matter within common experience and within the  scope and range of common experience. Look out for conclusions
re: extreme or refined observations (e.g., 100 mph, 500 yards, 10 tons, explicit diagnoses). If opinion is beyond scope of common experience, must qualify as an expert opinion.

BEYOND COMMON EXPERIENCE — opinion must relate to matter that is sufficiently beyond common experience so that the opinion of an expert would  assist the trier of fact.  This is
especially important when the expert does not have personal knowledge.

QUALIFIED AS AN EXPERT — proponant of expert must persuade the judge that person has special knowledge, skill, experience, training,  or education to qualify him/her as an
expert on the subject to which the opinion relates. Court has broad discretion in this area and each opinion must be measured against the particular qualifications of the witness and
the state of the art of the field to which the opinion relates.

BASIS OF OPINION — expert opinion
may be based on any proper matter
including materials not in evidence,
and assumed facts.

CROSS EXAMINATION OF EXPERT —
expert may be examined as to (1) qualifi-
cations as an expert, (2) subject to which
opinion relates, (3) matter and reasons
upon which opinion is based, and (4)
compensation and any other facts bear-
ing on possible bias. Major prob

Proper Matter — may be based on matters which are not in evidence and which
are themselves inadmissible if of a type reasonably relied on by experts in the
field involved.

If Based on Statement of Another  —
declarant of statement or opinion pro-
viding basis of expert opinion may be
called by adverse party and examined
as if on cross-X.

If Based on Improper Matter —  court
must exclude opinion.

Assumed Facts — may be hypothetical in nature and based on explicitly designated "assumed facts" which have been or will be
supported by sufficient admissible evidence to sustain a finding of their existence.

Basis of Opinion — expert may but, unless otherwise required by the court, need not state the reasons for the opinion on direct
exam. Such reasons may be elicited on cross exam.

Federal Rule — FRE 803(18) provides that expert may be examined re: statements contained in  published treatises, periodicals,
or pamphlets if shown to be  reliable authority by admission of the witness, other expert testimony or judicial notice. Statements so
used are also admissible substantively as an exception to the hearsay rule.

Common Law Rule — expert may not be examined in regard to the content or tenor of a published work  unless (1) the witness
referred to, considered or relied upon such publication in arriving at or forming his opinion, (2) the witness wrote the publication,
or (3) the publication, has been separately admitted in evidence. If use of statements in a publication are permitted under (1),
such statements are not admissible as substantive evidence.

plumbs*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 7

Multistate Issue Graph

COMMUNICATION PRIVILEGES

ISSUE SPOTTING SEQUENCE: (1) Is there a protected relationship:?  (2) Was there a communication? (3) Was it confidential? (4) Has the holder asserted the privilege? (5) Was there a waiver? (6) Do any
exceptions apply?

INTENT OF COMMUNICATION – existence of
"relationship" determined by the subjective in-
tent of the communicator to derive benefits of
protected relationship.

ACTUAL STATUS OF CONFIDANT –  parties must
actually be capable of entering privileged relation-
ship; if there is a mistake as to the capacity of a
confidant, no privilege (modern view is contra if
belief was reasonable).

Client – must seek professional advice or consultation; no prior relation-
ship, actual or anticipated compensation, or actual acceptance of case
is required. Corporation is a client if communication is made by an offi-
cer or director (i.e., "control group"),  or by an employee at the direction
of a superior.
Patient – must seek diagnosis or treatment; no prior relationship, com-
pensation, or actual treatment required.
Penitent – one who communicates to a clergyperson in accordance
with the rules or practice of a religious denomination.

Attorney – must be licensed to practice law in any state or nation; not
disbarred lawyers and unlicensed law graduates.
Physician – must be licensed medical practitioner  (M.D. or equivalent)
in any state or nation.
Psychotherapist – if not an M.D. (psychiatrists are M.D.'s) must be
licensed under authority of state; some states include marriage coun-
selors, clinical social workers, and psychologists.
Spouse – must be legally married.
Clergy – person must be authorized under rules of the religion to hear
confessions.

<

BOTH WAYS – all confidential communications are protected regardless of which party makes them (e.g., attorney's to
client/client's to attorney).

 GENERATED DURING AND FOR THE RELATIONSHIP – statements, records, and other documents preexisting the relation-
ship as well as communications made incidental to the relationship are not protected even if later transmitted to privileged per-
son, though the "information" may not be elicited from the privileged professional.
MODERN TREND – observations made by a spouse (especially in context of the "marital home") and observations of a med-
ical doctor during physical examination may be protected  if the holder appeared to rely on the sanctity of relationship to permit
the observation.

INESSENTIAL THIRD PERSONS – person is "inessential" unless presence advances the purposes of the relationship (stenog-
raphers, researchers, investigators, interpreters, and experts needed by a lawyer are essential.)
NON-PRIVILEGED PERSON – disclosure in the presence of an inessential person does not defeat the privilege if that person
is separately privileged (e.g., a spouse).
PROTECTS COMMUNICATION, NOT INFORMATION –  even if holder has disclosed the same information in non-privileged
contexts, the specific "communication" of that information made in a privileged relationship  is protected (e.g., lawyer may not be
required to testify even if any other person could be).
EAVESDROPPERS – at common law, eavesdroppers may testify (modern view is contra) but the communication is still privi-
leged with respect to those in the protected relationship.

(1) RELATIONSHIP — privileges are designed to foster socially
important relationships which require mutual trust and confi-
dence; must normally be specified by statute, though FRE
applies "common law" to federal cases and state law where
state law controls controversy.

(2)COMMUNICATION – under common law, only verbal communications
may be privileged; observations and impressions resulting from confiden-
tial protected relationships are not protected.

(3)CONFIDENTIALITY – communication must be the unique product of
the confidential relationship made under circumstances safeguarding the
confidentiality; presence of an inessential or a non-privileged third person
prevents privilege. Confidentiality is presumed; proponent must show no
confidentiality.

(4) HOLDER – the "holder" controls the privilege; it must be asserted (or waived) by him or on his behalf.

ATTORNEY-CLIENT – client is holder; after death, passes to personal representative.
PHYSICIAN OR PSYCHOTHERAPIST-PATIENT –  patient is holder; after death, passes to per-
sonal representative.
HUSBAND-WIFE – both parties are holders (even after marriage is dissolved).
CLERGY-PENITENT –  usually both are holders.
JUDGE MAY ASSERT – in the absence of a holder or authorized representative, the court may,
on its own motion, assert privilege.

(5)WAIVER – privilege is waived if holder (1)  voluntarily reveals a significant part of the communication, or (2) fails to object to disclosure when he had an opportunity and right to do so.

(6)EXCEPTIONS – for public policy reasons, privileges may not be asserted in
certain situations, especially where the lawsuit is between the parties to the
privileged relationship or to joint holders of the same privilege.

ATTORNEY-CLIENT – privilege not applicable (1) in suit between attorney and client, (2) in suit between joint clients,
(3) where communication was designed to advance a crime or fraud, or (4) if the communication relates to the intent of a
now deceased client with respect to the disposition of property.
PHYSICIAN OR PSYCHOTHERAPIST-PATIENT –  privilege not applicable (1) in suit between doctor and patient, (2)
patient has put his mental or physical condition in issue, (3) doctor appointed by court, or (4) in criminal cases (minority
view – e.g., California).
HUSBAND-WIFE – not applicable (1) in suit between holders, or (2) in criminal case based on assault of spouse or child.
CLERGY-PENITENT –  no exceptions; applicable in all actions.


pianist*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 8

Multistate Issue Graph

APPROACH TO HEARSAY

ISSUE SPOTTING SEQUENCE: (1) Is there an assertion? (2) Was it made out of court? (3) Who is the declarant? (4) What is asserted? (5) Is the assertion relevant for a non-hearsay use (i.e., a use not depen-
dent on the statement's truth)? (6) If used to prove its truth, is the assertion specifically exempted from the hearsay rule? (7) If neither an exclusion nor an exemption apply, does the assertion qualify for a
hearsay exception?

VERBAL COMMUNICATION —  includes all written and oral assertions, including tape recordings.

(1) ASSERTION

NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION

ASSERTIVE CONDUCT — gesture or act done with the primary intent to assert or communicate infor-
mation or opinion (e.g., lineup I.D., "o.k." sign); usually in response to a question.
NON-ASSERTIVE CONDUCT — under some theories of hearsay  (not the FRE), conduct is treated as
an assertion if the act is used as  circumstantial evidence of the belief of the actor  in order to prove the
truth of the belief — the conduct is used as an implied assertion of belief (e.g., the fact that a ship cap-
tain took his family aboard a ship used to prove the ship was seaworthy).

(2)OUT-OF-COURT — any assertion not made at the present hearing, including assertions made in other courts, assertions made under oath, and all writings.
(3)DECLARANT — person who made the out-of-court assertion; the source of the information (identification of the declarant is critical to analysis of the "assertion" and the sub-
stantive assertion contained therein).

(4)ASSERTION — isolate the statement made by the declarant (as opposed to the "testimony" of the witness reporting the statement) to determine precisely what is being
asserted. Note: If there are two or more out-of-court statements (e.g., a written report of an oral statement), analyze each assertion separately.

(5)RELEVANT NON-HEARSAY USE (HEARSAY EXCLUSIONS)  —
under the definition of hearsay, an out-of-court assertion is hearsay
only if it is offered to prove its truth. If the evidentiary value of a
statement is not dependent on the accuracy of the assertion con-
tained therein, the reliability of the declarant is not critical, and the
need for cross-examination is removed. Out-of-court assertions rel-
evant irrespective of their truth are non-hearsay (i.e., they are
excluded from the hearsay rule).

(6)STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS — FRE 801(d) specifically exempts
from the hearsay definition certain kinds of out-of-court statements
even though they are offered to prove their truth  and otherwise
meet the hearsay definition.

STATE OF MIND — fact that statement was made tends to prove a relevant state of mind of
the declarant or listener irrespective of the truth of the assertion (normally, used to prove
knowledge, intent, attitude, or belief of a party).
IMPEACHMENT OR REHABILITATION —  prior statement of a witness used to impeach or
rehabilitate (prior statement need not be true to show inconsistency nor to rebut charge of
recent fabrication). Note: FRE permits sworn statements made at a hearing or deposition to
be used as substantive evidence.
VERBAL EVENT — statement which has probative significance totally independent of any
communicative content: (1) transactional words (e.g., contract or a will, operative words of a
legal notice, demand, or donative intent, (2) tortious words of defamation, and (3) questions or
commands, etc.

ADMISSIONS (see Hearsay Exception MIG 10) —  though treated as non-hearsay under the
FRE, the nature and scope of "admissions" are analyzed in the more traditional context of
hearsay exceptions. FRE 801(d)(2).
PRIOR IDENTIFICATIONS — if declarant testifies in court with respect to identification of a
person, any prior statement identifying the person made after perceiving him is non-hearsay.
FRE 801(d)(1)(c).
PRIOR CONSISTENT STATEMENTS — if declarant testifies and has been impeached by a
claim of recent fabrication or undue influence,  any statement made prior to the alleged time of
fabrication or undue influence is non-hearsay. FRE 801(d)(1)(B).
PRIOR SWORN INCONSISTENT STATEMENTS —  if declarant testifies, any prior sworn state-
ment (subject to penalty of perjury) is non-hearsay if given at trial, hearing, or deposition. FRE
801(d)(1)(A).

(7)ADMISSIBLE HEARSAY (EXCEPTIONS) — if an out-of-court assertion is offered to prove its truth and it is not exempted by the FRE, it is hearsay. Much hearsay, however,
is admitted because of considerations of trustworthiness, necessity, and fairness. The scope and form of admissible hearsay is embodied in the 30 or so  hearsay exceptions
enumerated in FRE 803 and 804. The most important exceptions are analyzed in MIG 10.

postage

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

ADMISSIONS

EVIDENCE
V12 le Graph HEARSAY EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS

DIRECT ADMISSION -  ( 1) statement of a party (2) offered against that party.
ADOPTIVE - ( 1) statement made in party's presence (2) party's conduct or silence manifests adoption
of truth (3) offered against that party.
AUTHORIZED -  ( 1) declarant authorized by party (2) to speak concerning the subject (3) offered
against the authorizing party.
EMPLOYEE/AGENT (FRE, not Common Law) - (1) statement by a party's employee or agent (2)
made during the relationship (3) concerning a matter within the scope of employment (4) offered
against the party.
CO-CONSPIRATOR - ( 1) statement by a co-conspirator of party (2) made in furtherance of the conspir-
atorial goal (3) offered against the party (4) if independent evidence of conspiracy (5) sufficient to per-
suade judge (common law contra-prima facie case sufficient).

DECLARATION AGAINST INTEREST

DYING DECLARATION	

EXCITED UTTERANCE	

MENTAL STATE

(1) unavailable declarant (includes death,
incompetency, beyond jurisdiction,
assertion of privilege)

(2) against financial or penal interest
(common law - financial only)

(3) against interest when made
(4) reasonable person would net make it

unless true

(1) unavailable declarant (common law - declarant must

be dead)

(2) belief that death was imminent
(3) relates to cause or circumstances of threatened death
(4) personal knowledge, not opinion or speculation
(5) offered in civil or criminal homicide case (common

law - homicide only)

(1) startling event
(2) made under stress of excitement (common law  -

statement must be spontaneous, and made during or
immediately after event)

( 3 ) relating to event

BUSINESS RECORD

OFFICIAL WRITTEN
STATEMENT

PAST RECOLLECTION
RECORDED

PRIOR TESTIMONY

PRESENT MENTAL STATE - explicit statement of mental state may prove existence of the mental state
or conduct of declarant consistent with intent (some courts allow to prove conduct of a third person)

FORMER MENTAL STATE - explicit statement of past belief or remembrance may prove facts re
declarant's will, but not otherwise.

EQUIVALENCY
(FRE, not Common Law)

PHYSICAL STATE

PRESENT PHYSICAL STATE  - description of present sensation or condition may prove existence of
condition (need not be made to a doctor).
FORMER PHYSICAL STATE (FRE,  not Common Law) - ( 1) statement or description of (a) medical
history, or (b) past symptom or sensation, or (c) character or nature of external cause (2)  if made for
diagnosis or treatment (3) and if pertinent to diagnosis or treatment.

IDENTIFICATION
(FRE, not Common Law)

CONSISTENT STATEMENT
(FRE, not Common Law)

INCONSISTENT STATEMENT
(FRE, not Common Law)

ADDEM P.BOPP, SEE ICI

(1) written statement (including electronic data)
(2) made in regular course of business
(3) near time of receipt of information
(4) declarant has personal knowledge or source reliable
(5) unless circumstances indicate lack of trustworthiness

(1) written statement (including electronic data)
(2) by public official
(3) setting forth (a) activities of public office, or (b) observations
made or recorded in course of legal duties (not police report
in criminal case), or (c) factual findings of official investiga-
tion (not against D in criminal case) unless circumstances
indicate lack of trustworthiness.

(1) memo or record of facts
(2) personal knowledge of declarant or reliable source
(3) made when facts were fresh
(4) memory exhausted
(5) declarant testifies it accurately reflects former knowledge
(6) may be read into evidence only (unless adverse party

offers)

(1) testimony given under oath
(2) previously given in former hearing or deposition
(3) party (or predecessor in interest)  against whom offered
(4) had opportunity and similar incentive examine testimony
(common law - parties and issues must be identical)

(5) unavailable declarant (prosecutor has special heavy burden)

(1) during examination of expert
(2) statements in treatises, periodicals or pamphlets
(3) established as reliable authority by (a) testimony,
(b) admission of witness, or (c) judicial notice

(4) may be read into evidence (not admissible as exhibit)

(1)

(2)
(3)
(4)
( 5)

circumstantial guarantees of trustworthiness equivalent to
other exceptions
evidence of a material fact
more probative than other reasonably available evidence
interests of justice will be served
timely notice to adverse party providing fair opportunity to
response (including particulars of statement, name and
address of declarant)

prior statement of a witness-declarant
identifying a person
made after perceiving that person
(1) prior statement of a witness-declarant
(2) consistent with testimony
(3) offered to rebut charge of recent fabrication or

improper influence or motive
(1) prior statement of a witness
(2) inconsistent with testimony
(3) given subject to penalty of perjury
(4) at a deposition, trial, or other proceeding

SENSE IMPRESSION
(FRE, not Common Law)

(1) statement describing or explaining an event or condition
(2) made while or immediately after declarant was perceiving it

EXPERT CROSS-EXAMINATION
(FRE, not Common Law)

psatbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 10

Multistate Issue Graph

THE BIG 10 EXCEPTIONS

A-Admission D-Declaration v. Interest D-Dying Declaration E-Excited Utterance M-Mental State P-Physical State B-Business Record 0-Official Records P-Past Recollection Recorded P-Prior Recorded Testimony

A- ADMISSION — Rationale: gamesmanship and fairness — a party should not be permitted to exclude his own statements because of inability to cross-examine. Treated as non-hearsay  exemption under FRE; a

hearsay exception under common law.

  STATEMENTS OF PARTY-OPPONENT — (1) statement made by a party to a lawsuit (2) offered against him by his opponent. Personal knowledge of declarant not required; need not be against interest

when made; includes pleas of guilty (unless withdrawn); but not convictions. FRE 801(d)(2)(A).

STATEMENT ADOPTED BY PARTY-OPPONENT (TACIT ADMISSION) —
(1) statement of another (2) made to or in the presence of a party  (3) who
by conduct or silence manifests an unequivocal adoption or belief in  the
truth of the statement, and (4)  offered against the party by his opponent.
FRE 801(d)(2)()B).

STATEMENT OF ANOTHER ATTRIBUTED TO PARTY-OPPONENT (VICARIOUS
ADMISSION) — (1) statement made by another (2) attributed to a party and
(3) offered against the party by his opponent.

Must Hear and Be Able To Deny —  party must have heard or read statement, and he must have been reasonably
capable of denying truth of assertion.
Reasonable To Expect Denial —  circumstances must have been such that a reasonable person would have denied
the assertion if it were not true; remember right to silence in custodial situations.

Authorized Statements — (1) a statement made by a person explicitly or implicitly authorized by a party
(2) to speak on the party's behalf (3) offered against the party  by his opponent. Authority to speak is not
necessarily co-extensive with authority to act. FRE 801(d)(2)(C).
Employee Statements — (1) a statement made by a party's employee or agent (2) concerning a matter
within the scope of his agency or employment  (3) made during the course of the relationship  (4) offered
against the party by his opponent. No authority to speak is required; common law has no similar provision.
FRE 801(d)(2)(D).
Statement of Co-Conspirator — (1)  a statement made by a party's co-conspirator  (2) during the conspiracy
and (3) in furtherance of the conspiratorial goal  (4) offered against the party by the prosecutor (5) if the
underlying conspiracy can be established by independent evidence sufficient to persuade the judge  (by pre-
ponderance) that conspiracy exists. FRE 801(d)(2)(E). Common law only requires prima facie case prior to
admission, not preponderance.
Statement of Predecessor in Interest — (1)  statement made by a previous owner of property  (2) during
ownership (3) offered against the owner-party  by his opponent. Common law, not FRE.
Statement of Decedent in a Wrongful Death Action — (1)  statements made by the decedent in a wrongful
death action (2) offered against the party who brings the action. Common law, not FRE.

D- DECLARATION AGAINST INTEREST — (1) statement by an unavailable declarant (2) so far against financial or penal interests (3) when made (4) that a reasonable person would not have made it unless he
believed it to be true. FRE 804(b)(3). Rationale: unavailability indicates necessity, against interest assures trustworthiness. If statement is against penal interest and is offered to exculpate D, "corroborating
circumstances must clearly indicate trustworthiness." Common law limits statements to those against financial interest; a small minority admit statements against social interest as well.

D- DYING DECLARATION — (1) statement by an unavailable declarant (2) made while
the declarant believed his death was imminent (3) concerning the cause or circum-
stances of what he believed to be his impending death which is (4) offered in a
homicide prosecution or any civil case. FRE 804 (b)(2). Rationale: declarant would
not want to die with a lie on his lips.

INADMISSIBLE IN CRIMINAL CASES OTHER THAN HOMICIDE — common law only admits in criminal
homicide cases; FRE extends to civil cases, but not other types of criminal cases.
DECLARANT NEED NOT BE DEAD — (common law is contra).
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE — statement must relate personal observations not opinion or speculation.

E- EXCITED UTTERANCE — (1) statement relating to a (2) startling
event or condition (3) made while the declarant was under the
stress. FIRE 803(2). Rationale: excitement and stress preclude
fabrication.

M- MENTAL STATE — statements which purport to directly and
explicitly stale or describe declarant's mental or emotional con-
dition. FRE 803(3). Distinguish from statements which are
merely circumstantial evidence of the declarant's state of mind
(i.e., hearsay exclusions).

SPONTANEITY NOT REQUIRED — under strict common law rule, statement must be "spontaneous" (the intervention of a
question such as "What happened?" can defeat exception, and creates opportunity for fabrication), not so in FRE.
TIMING OF STATEMENT — under common law, statement must be made "during or immediately after the exciting event."
Under FRE, substantial time may pass so long as declarant is still under original stress of the event.
DECLARANT — need not be known or identified; availability is of no consequence.

PRESENT MENTAL STATE — statement purporting to reveal any presently held intent, belief, attitude, emotion, or feeling is admis-
sible to prove the true existence of that mental state.  Some states allow statement to prove conduct of person other than declarant,
but FRE comment urges contrary construction.  Rationale: no memory or perception problems.
FORMER MENTAL STATE — statement of memory or belief is not admissible to prove the fact remembered or believed unless it
relates to relevant facts concerning the declarant's will.  Rationale: expediency and necessity.

(MIG 10 con't)

P- PHYSICAL STATE — statements which purport to state
or describe declarant's physical sensations or condition.

B- BUSINESS RECORD — (1)  written statement (2) made in
the regular course of business  (3) at or near the time of
receipt of the information (4) by a person with knowledge
(5) unless the source of the information or circumstances
of preparation indicate lack of trustworthiness.  FIRE
803(6). Rationale: memory problems are avoided by
requirement of timely recording and trustworthiness is
assured by systematic checking, continuity and business
reliance on the statements.

PRESENT PHYSICAL STATE — statement purporting to describe any present physical sensation or condition is admissible to prove
the existence of that physical state.  Includes statements of present pain made to any person. FIRE 803(3).  Rationale: no memory or
perception problems: tends to be necessary.
FORMER PHYSICAL STATE —  (1) statement purporting to describe a medical history including  past pain, symptom or sensation, or
the inception or general character of the external source  of the physical condition is admissible if: (2)it was made for purposes of med-
ical diagnosis or treatment, and (3) it is reasonably pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment.  FIRE 803(4). Rationale: no perception prob-
lems, desire for effective diagnosis or treatment tends to guarantee sincerity and trustworthiness.

FOUNDATION — foundation may be established by the custodian of the record or any person who can identify the record and tes-
tify as to mode of preparation; the declarant need not testify.
DATA COMPILATION — business records may be in the form of electric data storage tapes and the like.
OPINIONS OR DIAGNOSIS —  statement may contain an  opinion or diagnosis. Common law is generally contra.
KNOWLEDGE — declarant must have personal knowledge or information recorded  or the record must be made from information
transmitted by one with knowledge.
BUSINESS — "business" includes any institution (including the government), association, profession or occupation.
REGULAR COURSE OF BUSINESS — many cases exclude records made for purposes of litigation (even if made by an investiga-
tor in the regular course of his duties); FIRE has no absolute rule, but authorizes the court to exclude records where there is a man-
ifest lack of trustworthiness.
ABSENCE OF ENTRY — (1) evidence that a matter is not included in a business record is (2)  admissible to prove the non-occur-
rence or non-existence of the matter if the matter was of a kind that was regularly reported unless the sources of information or
other circumstances indicate a lack of trustworthiness.  FIRE 803(7).
COMMERCIAL PUBLICATIONS —  (1) statement contained in market quotations, tabulations, lists, directories, or other published
compilations (2) generally used and relied upon (3) by the public or persons in particular occupations. FRE 803(17).

0- OFFICIAL WRITTEN STATEMENTS (Public Records) — Rationale: special trustworthiness is derived from fact that statement was made by or to a public employee with duty to accurately record and no

apparent motive to falsify: necessity results from likelihood that declarant will have no independent memory of contents. "Record" includes reports, statements, or data compilations (including electronic data)
in any form.

  RECORD OF PUBLIC ACTIVITY — (1) written statement (2) of a public employee or agency (3) concerning the activities of the public office or agency. FRE 803(8)(A).

  RECORD OF OBSERVATION —  (1) written statement (2) of a public employee or agency (3) concerning observations made (4) while carrying out a  duty imposed by law  (5) as to matters which there was

a duty to report (6) except that in criminal cases, records of observations made by law officers are not admissible. FIRE 803(8)(B).

  REPORT OF FINDINGS — (1) written statement (2) of a public officer or agency of factual findings or conclusions (3) resulting from an investigation or inquiry within the employee's or agency's legal duties

(4) unless the sources of information or other circumstances indicate a  lack of trustworthiness  (5) except that such reports are not admissible against a criminal defendant. FIRE 803(8)(C).

  ABSENCE OF RECORD OR ENTRY — (1) evidence that a matter is not included in a public record is  (2) admissible to prove the non-occurrence or non-existence of a matter of which record is regularly

made and preserved (3) if a certification is offered, or if testimony is produced to show that a diligent search failed to disclose the record or entry.  FRE 803(10).

  RECORDS OF VITAL STATISTICS — (1) written statements (2) of births, fetal deaths, deaths or marriages  if (3) the report was made to a public official (4) pursuant to requirements of law.  FRE 803(9).

  CERTIFICATE OF MARRIAGE, BAPTISM AND SIMILAR — (1) written certificate (2) issued by a clergyman, public official or other person  (3) authorized by law or the practices of a religion to perform a

marriage or religious ceremony  (4) indicating that such ceremony was performed  (5) if the certificate was issued at the time of the act or within a reasonable time thereafter. FIRE 803(12).

  RECORDS OF DOCUMENTS AFFECTING PROPERTY —  (1) record of public office (2) relating to the existence, content, execution or delivery of a document  (3) which affects an interest in property (not

just land) if (4) such record is  kept pursuant to statutory authority.  FRE 803(14). May prove content of document as well as fact of execution or delivery.

P- PAST RECOLLECTION RECORDED — (1) statement contained in a memorandum or
record (2) made by one with  personal knowledge (3) recording facts perceived by him
while the matter was still fresh in the declarant's mind  provided that (4) the declarant has
first exhausted his present recollection, (5) testified that he knows the  statement truly
reflected his knowledge at the time and (6) the statement is read into evidence only. FRE
803(5). Rationale: memory problems avoided by requirement of timely record, necessity
results from exhausted memory and trustworthiness somewhat safeguarded by opportu-
nity to cross-examine declarant.

P- PRIOR TESTIMONY —  (1) statement made in the form of testimony (2) by an unavailable
person (3) given at another hearing or in a deposition  (4) if the party against whom the
testimony is now offered (or his predecessor in interest) (5) had an opportunity and
(6) similar motive to develop the testimony on direct or cross-examination. FRE
804(b)(1). Rationale: necessity is a result of unavailability and trustworthiness is sup-
ported by prior opportunity to develop and examine testimony.

DECLARANT MUST TESTIFY — person who wrote memo must testify as a witness to lay necessary
foundation re: exhausted present memory and accuracy of memo.
PRESENT MEMORY EXHAUSTED —  court must find that declarant-witness has insufficient recollection to
enable full and accurate testimony on the fact(s) recorded.
NOT ADMISSIBLE AS EXHIBIT — writing itself not admissible unless offered by the adverse party.
RELATED ISSUES — distinguish from (1) present memory refreshed where memo actually jogs recollec-
tion and is not used as substantive evidence; (2) business record where memo made in ordinary course
of business; (3) look out for multiple hearsay — look to reliability of the ultimate source of information.

TESTIMONY — must be under oath or affirmation, but need not be recorded in verbatim transcript (even if
it is, the transcript is not required).
UNAVAILABILITY — in criminal cases, prosecutor must show every reasonable and diligent effort to pro-
duce declarant.
SIMILAR ISSUES — issues need not be identical (common law was contra) and testimony may be given
in unrelated proceeding if the present opponent was involved in suit and had opportunity and incentive to
develop testimony.
SIMILAR PARTIES — parties need not be identical (common law contra); person offering testimony need
not have been involved in prior proceeding; in civil cases, party must accept testimony previously offered
by or against predecessor in interest.

ponbe

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

EVIDENCE
MIG 11

Multistate Issue Graph

EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES

OBJECTIONS TO
FORM

NARRATIVE — Question too broad and general; testimony will be less rapid, distinct or effective than is reasonably possible and tends to include irrelevant and
other inadmissible responses.

LEADING — Question on direct exam suggests the desired response by its form, substance or tone. Leading questions  are allowed: (1) on cross-exam; (2) as
to undisputed preliminary facts;  (3) in examining witnesses with  comprehensive problems;  (4) in examining hostile witnesses on direct; (5) in examining experts;
(6) when used to refresh recollection.

ARGUMENTATIVE — Question not asked for purpose of eliciting new information but for rhetorical or argumentative effect.

ASSUMING FACTS NOT IN EVIDENCE — Question contains an assumption of a fact that is not supported by any evidence in the record (e.g., "Are you still
beating your dog?").

COMPOUND — Question embodies at least two separate aspects which make the answer unclear or ambiguous. Look for questions containing "or" as well as
separate questions attached by "and" (e.g., "Did you see  or hear him come home?" "Did you see and hear come home?").

AMBIGUOUS OR UNINTELLIGIBLE — Question that is unclear as to meaning or that may not be easily understood by the witness or invites an answer that
may not be easily understood in light of the question.

SPECULATION — Question asks witness to speculate or conjecture (aspect of opinion testimony). Look out for "Is it possible" questions. Witness need not be
certain but must be able to answer with a reasonable degree of conviction.

ASKED AND ANSWERED — Question previously answered adequately resulting in unconstructive repetition and cumulative evidence — broad leeway allowed
on cross-exam.

MISSTATES EVIDENCE — Question contains preface which misstates, characterizes or misconstrues evidence or testimony.

OPPRESSIVE AND HARASSING —  Question or conduct which will cause witness undue embarrassment or emotional stress.

NON-RESPONSIVE — Answer is not responsive to Question; either party may have answer stricken. Court has discretion to not strike unresponsive answers
and volunteered testimony if it is otherwise relevant and admissible, and if elicited by a proper question.

EVIDENCE	

28

ponbie

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

M ULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONSTITUTIONAL
LAW

Constitutional law. (1) That branch of the pub
nation or state which treats of the organization,
frame of government, the distribution of pc
governmental authorities and functions, and fi
principles which are to regulate the relations of
and citizen, and which prescribes generally th
method according to which the public affairs of
or state are to be administered. (2) That denart

1.

2.

3.

4.

(A)	
The doctrine of standing requires that a litigant have a concrete, personal stake in
the outcome. The generalized interest of a citizen in requiring his or her government act
constitutionally has never been deemed to be a sufficient basis for conferring standing.
Direct, individuated harm—different from the citizenry at large—is required. The case of
Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,  504 U.S. 555 (1992) held there was no standing because of
an inadequate showing of a sufficient liklihood that plaintiffs would be injured in the future
by destruction of endangered species abroad. The so-called "injury in fact" standard was
mandated by the case and controversy requirement of Article III. As a result, it is beyond
the power of Congress to confer standing by statute upon a particular class of persons who
would not otherwise satisfy the Article III requirement. Choice (A) is thus correct and the
suit should be dismissed. In brief, Congress does not have the authority to simply expand
federal court jurisdiction and grant standing to "anyone who wishes challenge" the drug
enforcement statute. As a private citizen, Wilson would be required to show a direct and
personal injury by application of the statute.

(C)	
Whether a party has "alleged such a personal stake in the outcome of the controversy
as to assure that concrete adverseness which sharpens the presentations of the issues" is "the
gist of the question of federal standing."  Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1962). Under the con-
stitutional standard imposed by the "case and controversy" requirement of Article  III, per-
sonal standing requires a minimum concrete "personal stake" in the outcome by a two-fold
showing of, first, "distinct and palpable injury" and, second, a "fairly traceable" causal con-
nection between the claimed injury and the challenged conduct. Nowak,  Constitutional
Law, p. 74. Choice (C) is correct because a boat manufacturer who is  currently selling to
Newcastle retailers most likely has standing to challenge the Newcastle Boating Act. Since
this manufacturer is presently selling to Newcastle retailers, the likelihood of his incurring
reimbursement costs for the boat inspections is more distinct and actual than that of any
plaintiff in the other given answer choices. Furthermore, an adjudication in favor of the boat
manufacturer will redress the claimed injury, i.e., establishing causal connection. The
interests represented by the Newcastle residents in choices (A) and (B) are  in futuro and
would fail for lack of ripeness. Choice (D) is incorrect because such a basis for a state tax-
payer challenge would fail to establish a direct and measurable economic injury.

(D)	
The United States, as a sovereign, is immune from being sued unless it has waived its
sovereign immunity by statute. United States v. Thompson,  98 U.S. 456, 489 (1878). Consent
to sue the federal government must be clearly given, expressly and implicitly. See, generally,
Jackson, V., Suing the Federal Government: Sovereignty, Immunity, and Judicial
Independence, 35 Geo. Wash. Intl L. Rev 521 (2003). Choice (A) is incorrect. Waiver by the
United States of its sovereign immunity is not a nonjusticiable issue and is a proper subject
for judicial review. Choice (B) is wrong. Congress, by statute, can authorize nonresident aliens
to sue in federal court. Choice (C) is incorrect. In a wrongful death action, relatives of the
deceased have sufficient standing (injury) to bring suit under Article III.

(A)	
Cody's suit challenging the constitutionality of the Santa Ana city ordinance prohibit-
ing male teenagers from entering the discotheque unless accompanied by a female raises an
issue of discrimination based on gender. Under Article III, Section 2 of the Constitution, the
"case or controversy" requirement establishes the concept that federal court jurisdiction will not
be exercised absent an actual and definite dispute between parties having adverse legal inter-
ests. Cody's suit will satisfy this requirement because the unequal treatment by which the ordi-
nance deals with teenage males versus females might adversely affect the legal interests of all
teenage males who wish to enter the discotheque, thereby constituting an actual and definite
dispute. Choice (A) is therefore correct since the federal court should hear the case. Choice  (B)
is incorrect because the case is not moot. A case is moot unless an actual controversy exists
at all stages of review. Since a denial of admission could similarly occur to other teenage males
trying to enter the discotheque without a female, Cody's lawsuit is not moot.

posabse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

1	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

5.

6.

7.

8.

(B)	
Under Article III, Section 2 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court is given appel-
late jurisdiction "both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such
Regulations as the Congress shall make." The case of Ex parte McCardle, 74 U.S. 506
(1868) upheld Congress' power to regulate broadly the scope of  appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court, subject to certain theoretical limitations: Congress may not deny the
Supreme Court its essential constitutional role by taking from it all avenues of review,
although certain classes of cases may be restricted, so long as  some lower federal court
has jurisdiction and due process protection is afforded. Also under Article III, Congress
has plenary power to establish and terminate lower federal courts, and to confer and
remove their scope of jurisdiction. Choice (B) correctly states the applicable rule of law
by which Congress may establish Supreme Court appellate review of specified lower state
court decisions.

(C)	
Under Article III, Section 1, the judicial power of the United States is vested in one
Supreme Court and "in such inferior Courts as Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish." Congress has exclusive control over the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts
inasmuch as these courts do not exist until Congress creates them. Since Congress can confer
and remove jurisdiction, it may define what types of cases may be heard by the (federal) dis-
trict courts and the courts of appeal. Therefore, cases which fall within the general federal
judicial power (i.e., diversity of citizenship cases) may constitutionally be eliminated com-
pletely by Congress. Choice (C) is correct. The leading case by the Supreme Court on elimi-
nating diversity jurisdiction from federal district courts is Shelden v. Sill,  49 U.S. 441 (1850)
(upholding Judiciary Act of 1789 which prohibited diversity jurisdiction from being created
by the assignment of a debt). In short, because Congress has discretion to create lower (infe-
rior) federal courts, Congress also has the power to determine their jurisdiction.

(B)	
Students should be advised that the President can only grant pardons or reprieves for
federal offenses. The President is not empowered to grant pardons for state offenses. The
governor has pardoning power over persons convicted of state crimes. Since the Algerian pris-
oners were subject to a California state criminal prosecution (for kidnapping), choice (B) is
correct.

(D)	
Under the Appointment Clause of Article II, the President alone may nominate "offi-
cers of the United States" – called  "principal officers" by the Supreme Court, which includes
Heads of Departments i.e., members of President's cabinet (e.g., Attorney General),
Ambassadors, and Supreme Court Justices. Other federal officials subject to appointment are
called "inferior officers." which includes deputy cabinet members, members of a federal
agency, e.g. Food and Drug Administration, F.A.A., Federal Elections Committee, etc. Under
the Appointment Clause, Congress (not the President) decides who appoints  "inferior offi-
cers:" (1) The President, (2) Heads of Departments, (3) Courts of Law, or any combination
thereof. In this question, Congress created a new federal agency to enforce the "Clean Air and
Water Protection Act." The five members of the committee created by the Act are "inferior
officers" under the Appointment Clause. It is  Congress who decides who appoints these mem-
bers. Under the statute in our question, the President is authorized to appoint three of the five
members, and the "top official" in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)—
the "Head of a Department" was authorized to appoint two members of the agency. This
scheme is constitutional under the Appointment Clause. Thus, Choice (D) is correct. See,
Buckley v. Vadeo,  424 U.S. 1 (1976) (federal law authorizing Speaker of the House and pres-
ident pro tempore of the Senate to appoint members of the Federal Election Commission, was
held to be a violation of the Appointment Clause).

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

2

pitiable

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9.

10.

11.

(C) A treaty or act of Congress will supersede and take precedence over an inconsis-
tent executive agreement or order. This question is a bit "tricky" because the facts state that
the earlier act of Congress "neither authorizes nor prohibits the president's actions." As a
consequence, many students may be "tempted" to choose choice (A). However,
Restatement of Foreign Relations Law, 2d,  takes the position that an executive agree-
ment is effective and binding as long as it "does not supersede inconsistent provisions of
earlier acts of Congress."  Nowak, Constitutional Law,  pg. 227. Here, the federal law cur-
rently in effect designates ten national holidays. By increasing the number of national hol-
idays for executive employees, the president's action is clearly in contravention with the
earlier act of Congress. Choice (C) is correct because it provides the best rationale why the
executive order should be invalid.

(B) This Constitutional Law question involves a difficult interplay between justifiabil-
ity and executive agreements. As a general rule, matters involving foreign affairs are non-
justiciable and immune from judicial review. The decided cases relate to foreign policy or
international affairs (e.g., Cambodian bombing and legality of Vietnam War nonjusticia-
ble). However, executive agreements relating to economic matters are generally subject to
judicial review. For example, in United States v. Guy W. Capps, Inc.,  a corporation had
standing to challenge an executive agreement between Canada and United States regulat-
ing potato exports by Canada. By the same token, private litigants were given standing to
challenge President Carter's executive order freezing Iranian assets. Therefore, choice (B)
"trumps" as being the best answer. Note that choice (C) is wrong because executive agree-
ments are generally valid and not subject to congressional approval. Choice (D) is wrong
because the Contract Clause restricts the power of state or local governments to modify the
obligations of parties to a private contract. However,  the federal government is not sub-
ject to the Contract Clause.  Nowak, Constitutional Law, pg. 416.

(A) The President has no independent power to establish the percentage of water con-
servation but Congress may delegate its power to do so to the President. First, the President
has no authority to set regulatory standards for water usage. This is a legislative action.
Congress has the power to legislate water usage under its power to regulate interstate com-
merce. Second, Congress may delegate certain of its enumerated powers to the President,
the courts, or other administrative agencies. When Congress attempts to delegate power,
two general requirements must be met: (1) the power must be  one which Congress may
delegate.  Certain powers are constitutionally stated such that a delegation would be invalid
(i.e., the power to declare war, to ratify treaties, to try cases of impeachment, etc.); and (2)
the delegation must contain at least some general guidelines  such that a court could deter-
mine whether the delegatee had exceeded the authority granted by Congress. Here,
Congress could most certainly delegate the power to set the percentage of energy con-
sumption. This would be a limited delegation of a small portion of Congress' power to reg-
ulate interstate commerce. Moreover, the President's determination of the proper
percentage was subject to "specific standards" and "detailed procedures" which would
ensure that a court could determine if the President overstepped the authority granted by
Congress.

12.

(C) Sometimes on the Multistate Exam students are tested on hornbook footnotes. On a
recent MBE, students were tested on whether the ruling of an administrative agency "pre-
empts" a conflicting state law.  This obscure rule of law is not covered by general bar review
outlines. Rather Nowak in his hornbook on Constitutional Law covers this area in the footnote
section dealing with federal preemption. As a general rule, the actions of federal agencies may
preempt state law. According to Nowak, "when Congress gives an administrative agency dis-
cretion to regulate a field of commercial activity, the agency's decision to preempt state reg-
ulations should be upheld."  Constitutional Law, footnote 5, pg. 322.

possbite

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

3	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

13.

14.

(A)	
The Supremacy Clause provides that when Congress intends to occupy a given
field (preemption) or where an actual, direct conflict between a federal law and a state law
exists, the state law will generally be invalidated. However, if the subject matter has tradi-
tionally been left to the states, it is less likely to be found to be the subject of federal pre-
emption. This is especially true in cases  involving health and safety regulations.  In the
case of Hillsborough County, Florida v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc.,  471 U.S.
707 (1985) the FDA established standards for the collection of blood plasma. Hillsborough
enacted an ordinance imposing  additional regulations on blood plasma collection. The
U.S. Supreme Court held that there was no preemption because the regulation of health
and safety matters is primarily and historically a matter of local concern.

(D)	
The 1 1 th Amendment provides: "The judicial power of the United States shall not
be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one
of the United States by citizens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign
state." Thus, the 1 1 th Amendment on its face bars a lawsuit in federal court brought by a
citizen of one state against another state. In addition, the Supreme Court has ruled that a
citizen of a state may not sue his own state in a federal court. Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S.
1 (1890). Choice (A) is wrong. Lawsuits filed in federal court against state officials are not
barred by the 11th Amendment, as long as the plaintiff is not seeking damages to be paid
by the state itself. See Ex Parte Young, 209 U.S. 123 (1908). Edleman v. Jordan, 415 U.S.
651 (1974) (11th Amendment prevents federal court from awarding retroactive relief—
damages to compensate past injuries—when those damages will be paid by the state trea-
sury, even if the state officer is named as the defendant, rather than the state itself). Choice
(B) is incorrect because the suit here is filed in a state court, not a federal court. Choice
(C) is incorrect, because suits filed in federal court against the political subdivision of a
state are not barred by the 11th Amendment (e.g. cities, counties, etc.). See  Mt. Healthy
City School District Board of Education v. Dole,  429 U.S. 274 (1977). Therefore, Choice
(D) is correct. The 1 1 th Amendment bars suit against states and arms of the state, includ-
ing state agencies. See Regents of University of California v Doe,  519 U.S. 425 (1997).

15. (A)	

This question deals with the area of intergovernmental immunity. While the
Supremacy Clause prohibits state or local governments from directly regulating or taxing
the federal government without its consent, the tax here is not upon the federal government
but upon a private concessionaire using federal property. Such "property interest taxes" tax
the user's right to the use and enjoyment of federal property, although the property itself
is exempt from the state taxation. So long as the property interest tax is nondiscriminatory,
it is not constitutionally prohibited. Note that if the State of Cumberland attempted to tax
the federal government directly (e.g., a state tax on rental receipts, including the federal
government's receipts from its concession lease to Reeves), (D) would be the best choice.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

4

potato*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

16.

17.

18.	

Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution provides that Congress shall have the power
(A)	
to dispose of and make "all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other
Property of the United States...." Use of this broad federal property power is subject to con-
gressional discretion and not subject to state regulation. Regarding United States territories,
"Congress has the entire dominion and sovereignty, national and local, Federal and State, and
has full legislative power over all subjects upon which the legislature of the State might
legislate with the State, and may, at its discretion entrust that power to the legislative assem-
bly of a Territory." See Nowak, Constitutional Law, pg. 124. The federal property power is
plenary and has been applied to the following areas: the establishment of legislative courts
with powers not derived from Article III; and regulation of (1) wild animals on federal lands,
(2) federal buildings and enclaves, (3) military ships and airplanes and (4) Indian reservations.
In light of the federal property power, Congress may validly convey the 1,000 acres of federal
land to the Poco Indians. Choice (A) is correct.

Under Article I, §8 of the Constitution, Congress is granted the exclusive power to
(C)	
coin money. Any attempt by the state or local governments to create a substitute or competi-
tive currency will be struck down as violative of the exclusive federal power. Here, the
Midwest Bucks are being used as a substitute for U.S. currency in the state of Midwest. Thus,
the state is substituting its own currency for legal U.S. tender in violation of the exclusive fed-
eral power to coin money. (A)  is not the best choice. There is no apparent burden on interstate
commerce under these facts. In contrast, it appears that commerce has been facilitated by the
use of a secondary form of currency.

Any state or local law that either directly or indirectly conflicts with federal law will
(A)	
be struck down as violative of the Supremacy Clause of Article VI. Here, the federal govern-
ment has virtually unlimited power to regulate immigration policy and the conduct of U.S.
foreign affairs with other nations. A state government regulation seeking to retaliate for
hostage taking of Americans by penalizing the citizens of nations where hostages have been
held could seriously undermine the efforts of the federal government to negotiate with these
nations. Even when the federal government has not directly prohibited the states from acting
in a particular area of regulation, state laws which act as an "obstacle to the accomplishment
and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress," have been struck down.  Hines
v. Davidowitz  (1941). Choice (B) is not the best choice. The constitutional prohibition against
ex post facto laws only prohibits  criminal penalties that have been imposed retroactively.
Here, denial of admission to a state university would probably not be considered a criminal
penalty because no fine or incarceration is imposed. Choice (C) is not the best choice. The
right to attend a state university should not be considered a fundamental right worthy of sub-
stantive due process protection. The Supreme Court has held in an analogous situation that
public education is not a fundamental right  (San Antonio v Rodriguez  (1973)). In addition,
denial of admission to the state university would be unlikely to warrant procedural due
process protection either as there is nothing for a hearing to resolve. Choice  (D) is not the best
choice because (1) attending a state university is not a "privilege or immunity" of the
Fourteenth Amendment and (2) only U.S. citizens are protected under this clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Students should recognize that the Privileges and Immunities Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment is extremely limited. Only one Supreme Court decision has
ever struck down a law as violative of this clause and even that case was overruled five years
later.

pnbt'

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

5	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

19.

(B)	
Under Article I, Section 8, Congress has plenary power to tax and spend for the
general welfare. In United States v. Butler,  297 U.S. 1 (1936), the Court held that Congress
is not limited to spending only to achieve the specific powers granted in Article I of the
Constitution. Rather, Congress may spend in any way it believes would serve the general
welfare, so long as it does not violate another constitutional provision. The $50 million
farm aid bill to subsidize Florida citrus growers for economic loss is clearly constitutional
under Congress' spending power. Note that choice (B) is preferred over (A) because the
latter incorrectly states that Congress' spending power is not subject to judicial review.
Clearly, there have been many cases where Congress' spending power has been challenged
and subject to judicial review.

20.

(A)	
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution grants Congress plenary power to reg-
ulate interstate commerce and commerce with foreign nations. Since Congress does have
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, the legislation is constitutional. As
such, the ODTC would have the authority to regulate the sale of Dr. Gates' encryption soft-
ware program to a foreign company.

Con Law "Commerce Clause" Variations:

Variation 1 is based on the following fact situation.

Variation 2 is based on the following fact situation.

Quicksilver Messenger Service conducts a courier
delivery service in the state of Lansing. Quicksilver
delivers documents and packages up to 150 lbs. to all
locations within the state. The company offers radio
dispatched messenger service and guarantees the deliv-
ery of all parcels within one hour after pick-up.
Quicksilver, whose service is limited to pick-ups and
deliveries within the state, does not make any deliver-
ies outside Lansing. A large percentage of Quicksilver's
business, however, consists of delivering packages to
local airlines for eventual shipment out-of-state.

The Lansing state legislature has just enacted a statute
imposing a $1 tax on each delivery transaction con-
ducted by private courier businesses operating within
the state. According to the new law, the tax is to be paid
by all companies engaged in the business of providing
courier service.

1. Can Lansing impose this tax on Quicksilver's

delivery operations within the state?

(A) Yes, because the transaction on which this tax
is imposed is severable from the interstate
delivery of such packages.

(B) Yes, because the commerce power of the fed-
eral government does not limit the taxing
authority of the states.

(C) No, because a large percentage of
Quicksilver's packages are shipped out-of-
state by the other carriers, the tax unduly bur-
dens interstate commerce.

(D) No, because the tax violates Quicksilver's

rights of equal protection.

Congress passes an act requiring that all owners of
bicycles in the United States to register them with a fed-
eral bicycle registry. The purpose of the law is to pro-
vide reliable evidence of ownership to reduce bicycle
theft. No fee is charged for the registration. Although
most stolen bicycles are kept or resold by the thieves in
the same cities in which the bicycles were stolen, an
increasing number of bicycles are being taken to cities
in other states for resale.

2.	

Is this act of Congress constitutional?

(A) Yes, because Congress has the power to regu-

late property for the general welfare.

(B) Yes, because Congress could determine that in
inseverable aggregates bicycle thefts affect
interstate commerce.

(C) No, because most stolen bicycles remain
within the state in which they were stolen.
(D) No, because the registration of vehicles is a
matter reserved to the states by the Tenth
Amendment.

Answer Key: 1. A

2. B

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

6

posabo

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

21.	

22.

(C)	
In U.S. v Lopez,  115 S.Ct 1624 (1995) the Supreme Court invalidated a federal
statute which imposed criminal penalties on persons who possess a firearm within 1,000
feet of a school building. The Court held that the Gun-Free School Zones Act of 1990 was
unconnected to interstate commerce and did not have a real effect on multistate commer-
cial concerns. As a result, the federal law could not be upheld under Congress' commerce
power. In this question, we have a subtle variation inasmuch as Congress is requiring the
states to enact legislation criminalizing firearm possession. In all likelihood, this would be
deemed unconstitutional because Congress cannot "commandeer the legislative processes
of the states by directly compelling them to enact and enforce a federal regulatory pro-
gram." See New York v. United States,  505 U.S. 144 (1992). In New York,  the Court held
that there are limits to Congress' right to interfere with the states' lawmaking processes,
and Congress will violate the Tenth Amendment if it exceeds those limits.

Multistate Variation:

The state of Marvista passes a law making it a crime to knowingly possess a firearm within
1,000 feet of a school building. The state passes the law in response to public concerns
about the safety of school children due to the increase in shootings and violent crime in
and around school buildings. Is the law constitutional? Answer: Yes, under the state's
police power. Pavlov Dog Answer: No, because it violates the Commerce Clause.

(B)	
Under Article I, Section 8, Congress shall have the power "To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes." This ple-
nary federal commerce power is held concurrently with the states, which may freely gov-
ern matters which do not require uniform national regulation. For a state regulation
affecting interstate commerce to pass judicial scrutiny, the statute must be found  reason-
able and nondiscriminatory  upon balancing the benefit to the state against the burden
imposed on interstate commerce such that  no less restrictive alternative means  of regula-
tion is available. Where a state statute may pose a discriminatory or undue burden on out-
of-state interests, the USSC applies a "balancing test," see  Pike v. Bruce Church, 397 U.S.
137 (1970). Luxury's strongest argument is that the North Durango "Window Tint" Act
effectively prevents Luxury Limousine Company from doing business in its state. Luxury's
strongest constitutional argument to invalidate the statute would be the Commerce Clause
challenge presented in answer Choice (B). Note, however, that the state's interest in safety
regulation, on balance, would likely outweigh the burden on interstate commerce claimed
by Luxury. Choice (A) is incorrect because all motor vehicles in North Durango are treated
equally under the law. Choice (D) is incorrect because strong support is given in the facts
to demonstrate that the purpose for enacting the "Window Tint" Act was neither arbitrary
nor unreasonable.

23.

(C)	

States have the power (concurrent with the federal government) to regulate coin-

pstabso

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

7	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

24.

25.

merce within their own borders. Such regulation will generally be upheld if it is purely
local (intrastate), and neither produces a lack of uniformity which is of federal concern nor
is already preempted by federal legislation in the area. Since (C) presents a case of purely
intrastate commerce, the regulation will likely be upheld. Choice (A) is not the best choice.
Although this is precisely the situation the legislation was probably intended to prohibit,
Rutherford's regulation of an out-of-state vendor with respect to in-state sales would
unduly burden interstate commerce. Choices (B) and (D) are not the best choices. Both sit-
uations involve state action in an area preempted by the federal government. In choice (B),
the state statute purports to regulate a sale to the United States government, an area of
intergovernmental immunity. In choice (D), the state statute purports to affect commerce
with foreign powers, an area reserved to the federal government.

This question is based on the decision in  Jackson v. Metropolitan Edison Co.,  419
(A)	
U.S. 345 (1974), in which the U.S. Supreme Court held that the actions of a public utility did
not involve sufficient state action to subject it to constitutional restraint on the basis of its
monopoly and government regulation. In  Jackson, an electric company terminated service to
a customer without having a full hearing to determine the status of the account or the cus-
tomer's willingness to pay new charges. The Court did not decide whether the customer would
have been entitled to a hearing had the utility been a part of the governmental structure.
Instead, a majority of the Justices held that the termination of service by the utility would not
be subject to constitutional review as it did not constitute state action. By analogy, choice (A)
is the correct answer in this similar licensing question.

A claimant challenging under the Equal Protection Clause must demonstrate that
(C)	
state action exists. Here, the rate setting policies of the private insurance company do not
involve "state action." The Calzona laws only regulate the licensing and solvency of insur-
ance companies, not the premiums charged. State licensing of a private entity is not suffi-
cient to render the discriminatory practices of the private entity "state action" within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment  (Moose Lodge v. Irvis (1972)). Choice (A) is not
the best choice. Congress has, by federal statute, authorized the states to regulate the poli-
cies and practices of insurance companies operating within the state boundaries. This has
been interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court to allow the state to regulate in a discrimina-
tory manner which would, absent the authorization of Congress, violate the negative impli-
cations of the Commerce Clause. However, this conferral of discriminatory power does not
allow the states to discriminate in a manner which would be so arbitrary, capricious or irra-
tional as to violate the Equal Protection Clause  (Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. Ward
(1985)). The power of the states to regulate the insurance companies is not plenary. Choice
(B) is not the best choice. There is no "state action" present requiring Good Neighbor to
justify its discriminatory premium. The Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause
only applies to actions by state and local governments, not to private companies even
where licensed by the state. Since Good Neighbor is only a private company which has not
engaged in "state action," it does not need a good reason to discriminate. Choice (D) is not
the best choice. Discrimination practiced by a purely private entity does not have to satisfy
the requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause. Thus, a court
would not even apply the Equal Protection Clause when Paul challenges the premium
increase instituted by a private insurance company.

26.	

Because the legislature's purpose in enacting the statute was to upgrade medical
(A)	
care for the elderly, there is a rational basis for excluding new, non-M.D. hearing aid ven-
dors. Choice (B) is not the best choice. There is no fundamental right to pursue a particu-
lar occupation without meeting training or education requirements. Choice (C) is not the
best choice. Patients purchasing hearing aids from non-physicians have the same legal
rights under the statute as those purchasing from physicians. Furthermore, the choice of

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

8

pileMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

type of practitioner is up to the patient. Choice (D) is not the best choice. Non-physicians
desiring to enter the field always have the option of obtaining medical training. States may,
under their police powers, regulate the qualifications of health care practitioners.

Multistate Nuance Chart

STRICT
SCRUTINY
BURDEN on STATE

to show that the challenged
measure is necessary to further
a compelling state interest

Covers three areas:
(1) Suspect Classifications:

Race
Alienage
National Origin
(2) Fundamental Rights:

Right to vote
Right to travel
Right to privacy (includes):
(a) Contraception
(b) Abortion
(c) Marriage
(d) Procreation
(e) Private Education
(f) Family Relations
(g) Sexual Orientation
(3) Protected 1st Amendment

EQUAL PROTECTION

INTERMEDIATE
SCRUTINY
BURDEN on STATE

to show that the statute is
substantially related to an
important governmental
objective

Covers:
(1) Gender
(2) Illegitimacy
(3) Children of Illegal Aliens

RATIONAL
BASIS

BURDEN on PLAINTIFF

to show the statute is not
rationally related to a
legitimate state interest

Covers:
(1)

Social or Economic Welfare
Measures (e.g., welfare benefits)

(2) Education - public
(3) Housing
(4) Unrelated people living together
(5) Bankruptcy
(6) Age
(7) Poverty
(8) Wealth
(9) Mental retardation
( I 0) Necessities of life (e.g., food,
shelter, clothing, and medical
care)

Rights
27. (C)	

Classifications based on gender are subject to intermediate scrutiny whereby the
government bears the burden to show that the action being challenged is substantially
related to an important interest. In fact, based on the recent holding in  United States v.
Virginia, 116 S. Ct. 2264 (1996)—Virginia Military Institute's "men only" program held
invalid—gender discrimination cases now require the government to show an "exceedingly
persuasive justification," a more vigorous test that is closer to strict scrutiny than to "mere
rationality" review. This test applies where the statute is  intended  to classify on the basis
of sex. Such is not the case here. Before jumping to the conclusion that this question
involves gender discrimination just because Victoria was not hired due to her sex, students
must focus on the government conduct itself. First, the state law requiring one shower for
every ten employees was neutral on its face, not intended to discriminate based on gender.
Second, the permit rejection by the city of Hoboken was based on failure to conform to the
local building code, not based on intentional gender discrimination. It is important to
remember that in sex-discrimination cases, the plaintiff is required to show a  discrimina-
tory purpose,  not merely a discriminatory effect. Here, the city's action does not trigger
intermediate scrutiny because there was no gender-motivated purpose behind the permit
rejection. Therefore, Choice (A) is incorrect. Rational basis analysis applies instead, and
Victoria will have the burden of persuasion. Choice (C) is the correct answer.

potato's

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

9	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

28.

29.

30.

31.

(A)	
One of the most striking expansions of the substantive due process doctrine in recent
years has been in the area of family relations.  As a general rule, the Supreme Court has found
that a person's decision about how to  conduct his or her family relationships (e.g., marriage,
child birth, child rearing and cohabitation with one's relatives) often rises to the level of a
`fundamental right".  Consequently, the state may interfere with such a decision only when it
shows the regulation is necessary for the fulfillment of a compelling public interest. Here, we are
dealing with a state law regulating child birth which will be subject to a "strict scrutiny" standard
of review. Since the facts indicate that the regulation was enacted because of public health
concerns, it does further a compelling state interest. Choice (A) is the best answer.

(D)	
Under the Supreme Court decision in  Moore v. City of East Cleveland,  a city may not
define a "family" to include only certain categories of related individuals. In Moore, the Court
struck down an ordinance which would have precluded a grandmother and grandson from liv-
ing together, holding that the Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause protects freedom of
choice in matters of marriage and family life. Note, however, that municipalities may  validly
prohibit unmarried, unrelated  individuals from sharing the same residence.  (Village of Belle
Terre v. Boraas 416 U.S. 1 (1974)).

(C)	
With respect to abortion, the trimester test of Roe has been partially overruled by
Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833 (1992). As a
result of Casey, the states may restrict abortion so long as they do not place any "undue
burden"  on the woman's right to choose. Here, the Islandia statute does place an "undue
burden" on the right to abortion because after the first three months a woman can only
have an abortion to protect her health and life.  Choice (A) is not the best answer because
it utilizes the "fundamental" right to privacy language articulated in Roe v. Wade  rather
than the current "undue burden"  test. Choice (B) is wrong because the Court does not
apply intermediate scrutiny in abortion cases.

(B)	
The right to be a candidate is related to the fundamental right to vote. In general the
state's interest in limiting ballot access is twofold: (1) to reduce voter confusion, and (2) to
maximize the probability that the winning candidate will have received a majority of the pop-
ular vote. In Storer v. Brown, 415 U.S. 724, (1974), a California provision which prohibited
independent candidates from running in the general election if the candidates either had voted
in the immediately preceding party primary or had registered their party affiliation with a
qualified party within one year of the primary was upheld. The Court determined that the "dis-
in the stability of the political sys-
affiliation" statute furthered the state's compelling interest 
tem, and its interest in having "intraparty feuds" resolved in primaries rather than in the
general election. Based on the Court's application of the  strict scrutiny standard of review,
choice (B) is the correct answer. The Court noted further in  Storer that the state must adopt
reasonable alternative means for independent candidates and minor political parties to get a
ballot position, and the alternative means must not place too heavy a burden on the right to
vote and the right to associate.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

10

psnbt.

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

32. (B)	

Since 1976, Mass. Board of Retirement v. Murgia,  427 U.S. 307, the Supreme Court
has consistently applied the rational basis test for government classifications based on age.
Under this "soft" test, the Supreme Court has never struck down an age classification as uncon-
stitutional. See, e.g., Vance v. Bradley,  440 U.S. 93 (1079) (federal law requiring retirement at
age 60 for employees in the Foreign Service Retirement System, held constitutional);  Gregory
v. Ashcroft,  501 U.S. 452 (1991) (Missouri mandatory retirement age of 70, for most state
judges, held constitutional). This question is very similar to the facts in  Breck v. Michigan,  203
F. 3d 392 (6th Cir. 2000), where the Court of Appeals upheld a Michigan statute which denied
judicial candidacy to any person who was at least 70 years of age on election day for that judi-
cial office, 530 U.S. 1244 (2000).

Multistate Nuance Chart:

THE RIGHT TO BE A CANDIDATE

TYPE OF RESTRICTION

STANDARD OF REVIEW

Wealth Restriction  
Residency Restriction
Property Ownership Requirements
Party Affiliation   Strict Scrutiny
Racial Classification   Strict Scrutiny
Age Classification   Rational Basis
Prohibition On Officeholders From
Being Candidates For Another Office

Strict Scrutiny
Strict Scrutiny
No Articulated Standard

Rational Basis

33. (D) The closest USSC case on point is Citizens Against Rent Control v. City of Berkeley,
454 U.S. 290 (1981), where a limit of $250 on individual contributions to a commission sup-
porting or opposing a ballot referendum was held unconstitutional. In Buckley v. Valeo,  424
U.S. 1 (1976), the Supreme Court ruled that  spending limits imposed on candidates for pub-
lic office are unconstitutional as violative of political speech under the First Amendment,
because such restrictions on the amount of money a person or group can spend "reduces the
quantity of expression by restricting the number of issues discussed, the depth of their explo-
ration, and the size of the audience reached."  Buckley  at 19. On the other hand, reasonable
limits on campaign contributions do not violate the First Amendment  because such contri-
butions to candidates create a greater "danger of corruption and the appearance of corruption"
than spending limitations. Contribution limits do not have to meet strict scrutiny and will be
upheld if the government demonstrates they are "closely drawn" to match a "sufficiently
important [government] interest," such as to prevent "corruption" and its "appearance." See,
Randall v. Sorrell, 126 S. Ct. 2479 (2006). A Vermont law placing contribution limits on can-
didates for statewide office, such as governor to $400, state senators $300 and state represen-
tatives $200, was held too low to withstand First Amendment scrutiny. Contribution limits that
are too low can harm the election process by preventing challengers from mounting effective
campaigns against incumbent officeholders. Compare as to what is reasonable:  Nixon v.
Shrink Missouri Government PAC,  528 U.S. 377 (2000), upholding limits on campaign con-
tributions ranging from $275 to $1,075 on candidates for state office.

pssibse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

11	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW






34.

The city is discriminating against non-residents with respect to one of the privileges
(C)	
and immunities of state citizenship protected by Article IV, Section 2—the right to pursue a
livelihood. This clause protects non-residents from being discriminated against by state or
local governments with respect to certain "basic rights" and "essential activities" of state cit-
izenship. Among these are the right to own property, equal access to medical care and the
courts, and the right to earn a living. Here, Medford's commuter tax discriminates against
non-resident workers. Where discrimination against the employment rights of non-residents is
found to exist, the law will be struck down unless the responsible state or local government
can show such discrimination is closely related to a substantial government interest. In cases
of discrimination against non-residents in employment contexts, the Supreme Court has
required the government to show that the non-residents are a "peculiar source of the evil the
law was designed to redress." Here, if Medford businesses are not making enough money, the
Court is not likely to allow the city to tax non-residents who (quite conveniently, are not able
to vote in Medford city elections) are not shown under to facts to be the sole cause of poor
business revenues of local merchants. See Austin v. New Hampshire (1975), in which the
Court struck down a similar income tax imposed upon non-residents as violative of Article IV,
Section 2, Privileges and Immunities Clause. Therefore, choice  (B) is incorrect since the law
will be held invalid. Choice (A) is also not the best choice. Government action within the
police power recognized by the 10th Amendment is not the sole inquiry in deciding whether
it is constitutional, it must also comply with all limitations of government power which the
Constitution contains. Here, the employment tax on non-residents is violative of the Article
IV, Section 2, Privileges and Immunities Clause because the discriminatory application of the
tax is not closely related to any substantial government interest. Thus, the police power alone
is not enough to justify this tax. Choice (D) is incorrect. The discrimination against non-resi-
dents imposed by the tax is not a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. As a general rule,
an equal protection challenge will only be successful if the discriminatory government action
is such that strict scrutiny or heightened scrutiny will be applied by the court. These tests will
only be applied where intentional discrimination against a suspect class, fundamental interest,
gender or illegitimacy is found to exist. Here, the discrimination involves non-residents
(which is not a suspect class) and the right to work (which is not a fundamental right).
Consequently, this discrimination will only be judged under the  rational basis test. Under this
test, the claimant has the burden of proof to show that the government action is not rationally
related to any legitimate government interest. Courts almost never strike down laws under this
test, especially when the law relates to economics. Here, the Medford employment tax would
be presumed to be rationally related to a legitimate city interest in raising revenue.

35.

(A)	
Procedural due process guarantees a fair decision-making process before the gov-
ernment takes some action directly impairing an individual's life, liberty, or property interests
under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Where such a deprivation occurs which is seri-
ous in nature, the procedural safeguards of notice and opportunity to be heard (i.e., hearing)
are available. Substantive due process, on the other hand, is a very broad area which judges
the compatibility of the substance of government legislation  with the Constitution. Fishman
can prove that his restaurant complies with the municipal licensing ordinance, yet Carson City
officials have denied him a license. To guarantee a fair decision-making process, Fishman can
strongly argue that he should have been granted an opportunity to be heard and a statement of
the reasons for his license denial since the right to engage in gainful employment is a "liberty"
interest protected by the safeguards of procedural due process. Whenever the government
takes an action which is designed to deprive an individual, or limited group, of the freedom to
engage in some significant area of human activity, such as terminating the individual's ability
to engage in a profession, some procedure to determine the legality of such action is required
by the Due Process Clause. Nowak, Constitutional Law, p. 408. Choice (A) is therefore
correct.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

12

priapic*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

36.

37.

38.

39.

(C) In Hawaii Housing Authority v. Midkiff,  467 U.S. 229 (1984), the Supreme Court
held that the Government satisfies the Public Use Clause if it can demonstrate that the
"exercise of the eminent domain power is rationally related to a conceivable public pur-
pose." Midkiff  at 241. More recently in Kelo v. City of New London,  545 U.S. 469 (2005),
the Supreme Court reaffirmed that courts must give broad deference to a legislature's judg-
ment as to what constitutes a public use. In Kelo, a divided Supreme Court ruled that a
broad economic redevelopment plan by a city to eradicate economic blight and high unem-
ployment is a legitimate public use under the Fifth Amendment. Choices (A), (B), and (D)
are all incorrect because they misstate the appropriate burden and standard. Note: Choice
(A) is incorrect because the Supreme Court has never held that property ownership is a fun-
damental constitutional right. Choice (D) is tempting, however, the Supreme Court has clearly
held the burden is on the government to justify its reasons for taking private property.

(C) A law that applies to named individuals or an easily ascertainable group in a man-
ner that inflicts a punishment without a judicial trial is an unconstitutional  bill of attainder.
Here, the state legislature passed a licensing law which expressly revoked Chester's license
without the benefit of a trial. Since he was singled out by name in the law and punished with-
out a trial, the State Z law is an unconstitutional bill of attainder. Choice (A) is incorrect.
There is no discrimination against non-residents of State Z which would be required for an
effective Article IV, Section 2, privileges and immunity challenge. Choice (B) is not the best
choice. State licensing laws for doctors, lawyers and other professions are uniformly upheld
because they do not discriminate or impose an undue burden on interstate commerce. This leg-
islation would not be subject to challenge because it does not discriminate or burden interstate
commerce. The fact that one acupuncturist, Chester, was prohibited from practicing acupunc-
ture is not sufficient to show that interstate commerce has been burdened. Moreover, there is
no individual right to engage in interstate commerce.

(A) The Ex Post Facto Clause forbids both the states and the federal government
from enacting retroactive criminal laws. The most common sort of an ex post facto law
is one which creates a new crime and applies it retroactively to conduct not criminal at the
time committed. In addition, the Ex Post Facto Clause prohibits the retroactive application
of an increase in the punishment for a crime which carried a lesser penalty when commit-
ted. Another aspect of the ex post facto prohibition is concerned with  retroactive changes
in evidence and procedure which operate to the disadvantage of the criminal defendant
by making conviction easier.  Thus, a statute which changes the burden of proof on the
prosecution from the usual rule of "beyond a reasonable doubt" to one of "preponderance
of the evidence" is ex post facto, if retroactive. By analogy, in this hypo we have a situa-
tion where the legislature changed the unanimity jury verdict requirement after the defen-
dant was arrested and charged with robbery. As such, choice (A) is correct.

(D) Laws that prohibit the posting of signs on public property are constitutional.
Members of City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent,  466 U.S. 789 (1984).
However, once the government voluntarily decides to open public property to some forms
of speech, it creates a "limited or designated public forum" and any "restriction must not
discriminate against speech on the basis of viewpoint and must be reasonable in light of
the purpose served by the forum." In addition, any licensing or permit system that leaves
significant discretion to the licensing official or "unfettered discretion" to award or deny
permits is facially unconstitutional.  Forsyth County, Georgia v. Nationalist Movement,  505
U.S. 123 (1992)—an ordinance that required a permit for demonstrations and allowed the
permit official unlimited discretion to charge a fee up to $1,000, was held unconstitutional
because of a lack of articulated standards or objective factors.

possalose

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

13	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

40.

(D)	
Based upon the decision in Wooley v. Maynard,  430 U.S. 705 (1977), Choice (D) is
correct. In Wooley,  the Supreme Court held that a motorist has a free speech right not to be
prosecuted for covering up the New Hampshire state motto, "Live Free or Die," on his license
plate. As long as the license plate was left in a condition that served "its auto identification
purpose," the state's interest in promoting pride and an appreciation of history and individu-
alism was insufficient to justify the restrictions on free speech. Accordingly, a state cannot
force an individual to be an instrument of an ideological point of view with which he (or she)
disagrees.

41.

Under the so-called "affectation doctrine," the U.S. Supreme Court has recognized

(A)	
that Congress has the power to regulate any activity, whether carried on in one state or
many, which has any appreciable effect—directly or indirectly—upon interstate commerce.

42. (B)	

The South Bend ordinance may be attacked as a violation of protected First Amend-
ment freedom of expression since it prohibits  all singing and chanting for twelve  hours every
day in areas which are traditionally viewed as  public forums.  Time, place, manner limitations
on speech-related conduct are permitted when achieved by  reasonable content-neutral  regu-
lations which further a significant governmental purpose. Such an ordinance must be narrowly
drawn so as not to establish a total ban on protected rights of free speech. Since the South
Bend ordinance does not appear to satisfy this standard, a First Amendment free speech attack
by the students will be a strong challenge. Therefore, choice (A) is incorrect. Choice (C) is
also incorrect because it presents a strong challenge in the form of the vagueness and over-
breadth doctrines. By proscribing protected as well as prohibited speech for half of each day
everywhere in the city the ordinance is clearly overbroad on its face. Similarly, due to the
uncertainty-producing effect as to what conduct is restricted by the words "singing and chant-
ing of songs" and "audible (to whom?) off the premises," a vagueness challenge should be
successful. Choice (D), another strong argument, is incorrect since non-religious songs—
which are certainly areas of protected speech—are being treated differently than religious
songs, thereby raising an equal protection challenge to be reviewed using the strict scrutiny
standard. By process of elimination, choice (B) is correct because the due process argument
it presents is the weakest basis to attack the ordinance.

MBE Exam Tip:  When a Multistate question is phrased in a  negative tense,  it may prove help-
ful to apply the following approach:

TYPE OF QUESTION	

APPROACH

LEAST ACCURATE
WEAKEST ARGUMENT
NOT ACCURATE OR NOT HELPFUL

Step 1:  Eliminate all correct statements;
Step 2:  Look for false statement;
Step 3:  Choose wrong statement of law.

43. (B) Government owned property is a public forum that the government is constitutionally
required to make available for speech-related activities. Parks, sidewalks and city streets are
traditional classic public forums. The government may regulate speech thereon if certain stan-
dards are met: (1) the regulation must be content neutral (unless strict scrutiny is met), (2) the
regulation must be a reasonable time, place, manner restriction that serves a significant gov-
ernmental interest, that (3) leaves open adequate alternative places for speech, and (4) gives
clear guidelines to the licensing official that leaves no room for arbitrary discretion. See, e.g.,
City of Lakewood v. Plain Dealer Publishing Co.,  486 U.S. 750 (1988).

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

14

posh.*

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

44.

45.

46.

47.

(A)	
Related to the state's power to use zoning laws to restrict "adult" speech is the state's
power, under the Twenty-First Amendment, to regulate "adult" speech in establishments
licensed by the state to serve liquor. The Twenty-First Amendment has long been used to grant
the states extensive authority over liquor, and to some extent immunize state regulation from
Commerce Clause challenge as well. In New York State Liquor Authority v. Bellanca,  452 U.S.
714, the Supreme Court upheld New York's power to ban topless dancing in establishments
licensed to serve liquor.

Multistate Caveat: A state statute prohibiting nude entertainment in places that serve no
alcohol but only food or nonalcoholic beverages, may violate the First Amendment.  Nudity
alone is not per se obscene in the constitutional sense.

(D)	
The Dichondra statute contains the three elements of the  Roth-Miller definition of
obscenity: (1) the material must have as its dominant theme the appeal to prurient sexual inter-
ests; (2) it must be patently offensive to contemporary community standards; and (3) the mate-
rial must lack serious literary, artistic, political or scientific merit  (Roth v. United States  354
U.S. 476 (1957); Miller v. California, 413 U.S. 15 (1973)). It is entirely proper under this def-
inition for the "patently offensive" prong of the test to be applied based on local community
standards. (Note, however, that local community standards may not be used to apply the "seri-
ous value" prong of the Roth-Miller test; that determination must be made using the "reason-
able person" standard.) Choices (A) and (B) are not the best choices. An individual's First and
Fourteenth Amendment rights are circumscribed by the right of the community to prohibit
pornographic exhibitions in public theaters.

(D)	
Quite often Multistate Constitutional Law questions are based upon case prece-
dent. This question, for example, is based upon ruling in  44 Liquormart v. Rhode Island,
517 U.S. 484 (1996) in which a Rhode Island statute prohibited all advertising of liquor
prices, except for price tags displayed with the merchandise. The Supreme Court invali-
dated the law because regulations of commercial speech must be "narrowly tailored" and
should be no more extensive than is necessary.  In both 44 Liquormart and in our ques-
tion, the state is attempting to regulate unprotected commercial speech (i.e. vice advertis-
ing). Choice (D) is correct because a state will not be permitted to  completely ban
commercial advertising but must use a means narrowly tailored to achieve the desired
objective.

(D)	
The key issue in this question does not deal with either case or controversy, stand-
ing or diversity of citizenship. Therefore, choices (A), (B) and (C) are incorrect. Rather,
the issue is whether a court of law can adjudicate a suit between rival religious groups of
the same church in determining whether a sacrificial ritual is a proper church tenet. A sim-
ilar problem dealing with unusual religious beliefs and practices was presented in the case
of United States v. Ballard, 322 U.S. 78 (1944). In Ballard, defendant was prosecuted for
mail fraud where he solicited money on the representation that he was a divine messenger
and had the divine power to heal incurable diseases. The Court, adopting a strict neutral-
ity approach to the Free Exercise Clause, held that the First Amendment barred submitting
to the jury the question of whether his religious beliefs were true. Writing for the Court,
Justice Douglas stated: "The religious views espoused by respondents might seem incred-
ible, if not preposterous, to most people. But if those doctrines are subject to trial before a
jury charged with finding their truth or falsity, then the same can be done with the religious
beliefs of any sect. When the triers of fact undertake that task, they enter a forbidden
domain."

psiebse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

15	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

48.

49.

(B)	
Since 1990, the Supreme Court has used a rational basis test when a state law is chal-
lenged under the Free Exercise Clause, provided the state law is: (1) neutral, (2) of general
application, and (3) the law is not intended to burden religious freedom.  Employment
Division, Department of Human Resources v. Smith,  494 U.S. 872 (1990). In Smith,  the
Supreme Court abandoned strict scrutiny (compelling state interest test) in most cases under
the Free Exercise Clause except  (1) cases involving unemployment benefit. See, Sherbert v.
Verner, 374 U.S. 398 (1963), and (2) compulsory school attendance laws where a religious
exemption is sought. See, Wisconsin v. Yoder,  406 U.S. 205 (1972) (Amish case). Free
Exercise challenges to laws requiring production of social security numbers are routinely
denied. See, 93 A.L.R. 5th 1 (2001). See also, Brunson v. Department of Motor Vehicles,  72
Cal. App. 4th 1251 (1999) (rejecting free exercise claim against providing social security
numbers for driver's license).

(C)	
This same freedom of religion issue was tested on a recent MBE. The facts derive
from a New York law which allowed local school boards to adopt regulations for the use of
school property, at times when schools were not in session. In Lamb's Chapel v. Center
Moriches Union Free School District, the Moriches Union School Board authorized the use
of (public) school property, when it was not otherwise being used for school purposes, for
social, civic or recreational uses and for uses by political organizations. However, the school
board denied a religious congregation the ability to use the school property at a time when
classes were not in session and the school was not being used for previously scheduled activ-
ities. In Lamb's Chapel, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the school board's regu-
lation violated the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment because it constituted
viewpoint discrimination.  Based on the holding in Lamb's Chapel, choice (C) is correct.

50. (C)	

Another issue commonly tested on the MBE deals with  whether religious mem-
In McDaniel v. Paty, 435 U.S. 618
bers are precluded from holding government offices. 
(1978), the Supreme Court declared unconstitutional a state law that prevented
"Minister(s) of the Gospel, or priest(s) of any denomination whatever from serving as del-
egates to the state constitutional convention." Interestingly enough, the disqualification of
clergy members from legislative office existed in England and was followed by seven of
the original states. The Supreme Court, however, found that this history was  not decisive
and invalidated the state law. The majority of Justices ruled that the free exercise of reli-
gion allowed members of the clergy to hold government office.  Based on the holding in
McDaniel, the appointment of a member of the clergy to a governmental agency or com-
mission would not per se be violative of the Establishment Clause.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

16

ponbse

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW FEDERAL JUDICIAL AUTHORITY

eto br MIG 1

Multistate Issue Graph

Organization
of the
Federal Court
System

Judicial Review
(doctrine
empowering
federal courts to
refuse to hear a
case, despite
subject matter
jurisdiction)

ARTICLE III — vests the judicial power in the Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress may establish; jurisdiction limited to "cases and

controversies" — cases arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, and cases in which the United States is a party.
Compare: Article I Courts (tax courts, courts in the District of Columbia) are vested with administrative, as well as judicial functions; no lifetime
tenure for Article I judges. Role of Congress: plenary power both to establish lower federal courts and to confer and remove jurisdiction over
Article III courts
Note that Article III courts may not give advisory opinions, although state courts may do so

POWER OF JUDICIAL REVIEW —  Marbury v Madison  — held the Supreme Court may determine the constitutionality of acts of other branches of government;

federal courts may also review state court decisions

JURISDICTION OF THE USCC — Original (trial level) — extends to "all cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a
State shall be a Party"; Congress may neither enlarge nor restrict, but may give concurrent jurisdiction to lower federal courts
(except in cases between 2 or more states where the USSC has exclusive jurisdiction)
Appellate — extends to all other Article III cases and controversies; Congress may broadly regulate, but may not preclude
review of an entire class of cases

TWO STATUTORY MEANS Provided by Congress to Invoke USSC Appellate Jurisdiction: 1. Appeal (mandatory review) — applies to decisions of 3-judge

federal district courts regarding injunctive relief
2. Certiorari (discretionary; 4 or more justices vote to hear a case) — applies to decisions of the highest state courts regarding the
constitutionality or violation of federal law, and decisions of US Courts of Appeal

STANDING — concrete personal stake in the outcome is required

Constitutional Standard (required by Article III) — Injury in Fact — specific, not theoretical, injury must arise from the government conduct being
complained of; usually economic injury, but need not be
Redressibility (Causation) — the relief sought must eliminate the harm alleged; plaintiff's injury must be within the "zone of interests" Congress
meant to protect
Prudential Limitations — self-imposed by the Court; no "citizen" standing for abstract, generalized grievances; a corporation has standing to
challenge a federal statute where the injury is to the organization itself.
No third party standing, unless plaintiff herself has suffered injury which adversely affects her relationship with third parties, who have difficulty
asserting their own rights
No taxpayer standing because the interest is too remote, except a federal taxpayer has standing to make an establishment clause challenge to
an expenditure which exceeds some specific limitation on the taxing and spending power  (Flast v Cohen)

MOOTNESS — a case brought too late; an actual controversy must exist at all stages of review, unless the issue is capable of repetition, yet evading review

(pregnancy, elections)

RIPENESS — a case brought too early; a genuine, immediate threat of harm must exist (no declaratory judgment allowed before a law is enforced)

POLITICAL QUESTIONS — nonjusticable issues committed to other branches of government (i.e. foreign affairs, Guaranty Clause issues; congressional mem-

bership requirements; but not apportionment of legislative districts)

11TH AMENDMENT — provides a state cannot be sued in federal court without consent; however, state officials may be sued for federal law violations; local
governments can be sued; the United States or another state may sue a state; Congress can remove a state's immunity (i.e. for civil
rights violations)

ABSTENTION — Pullman doctrine applies where a federal claim is based on an unsettled issue of state law; procedurally, the federal court retains jurisdiction

of the federal claim
Younger doctrine prohibits review/enjoining of pending state criminal proceedings, criminally related civil proceedings, and civil contempt
proceedings; procedurally the party is sent back to state court for all purposes

ADEQUATE AND INDEPENDENT STATE GROUNDS — The USSC will not review a final judgment from the highest state court that the case may reach where

the state decision was based on a clear, adequate, independent and fully dispositive nonfederal ground

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

SEPARATION OF POWERS

PUL TIS TA TE SPECIALIST	 MIG 2

Multistate Issue Graph

Doctrine of
Enumerated
Powers

Federal
Legislative
Power
(Article 1, §8
Enumerated
Powers)

Delegation of
Legislative
Power

Federal
Executive
Power
(Article II)

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FG) —  has only that authority which the Constitution confers on it, either express or implied

10th AMENDMENT — powers not delegated to the FG are retained by the States under the 10th Amendment; under the police power, the States can legislate to

protect any health, safety, welfare, morals, or aesthetics interest

NECESSARY AND PROPER CLAUSE — grants Congress the authority to carry into execution any enumerated power; not an independent source of power

COMMERCE POWER — plenary power which regulates both domestic and foreign commerce

Affectation Doctrine — regulates any activity which has a substantial economic effect on the stream of interstate commerce
Cumulative Impact Doctrine — even an entirely intrastate activity which has a cumulative impact on interstate commerce may be
regulated

TAXING AND SPENDING POWER —  plenary power to tax and spend for the general welfare; general welfare clause is not an independent source of power
Spending Power — Congress can attach strings to federal appropriations, thereby regulating indirectly where it cannot
legislate directly
Taxing Power — a federal tax is valid if the dominant intent is fiscal; direct taxes (income tax) must be apportioned; indirect
taxes (sales, use and excise taxes) must be geographically uniform

WAR POWER — to declare war, raise and support an army and navy, and make rules to regulate the armed forces; pervasive economic regulatory power during

war; regulation may continue even after cessation of hostilities

OTHER ENUMERATED POWERS — postal power; power over District of Columbia; power to coin money; to propose Constitutional amendments; immigration and

naturalization; copyright, patent, bankruptcy powers; impeachment power

IMPLIED POWERS — broad investigatory power enforceable by contempt sanction; plenary admiralty power

LEGISLATIVE VETO — Congress can delegate its legislative power to executive and administrative agencies, but cannot subsequently retract it — such a

"legislative veto" is unconstitutional  (INS v Chadha)

DOMESTIC POLICY — Power and obligation to faithfully execute the laws

Appointment Powers — President can appoint purely executive officers (Cabinet members), ambassadors, public ministers, consuls and
USSC judges "with the advice and consent of the Senate"; Congress may not appoint members of bodies having administrative or
enforcement powers, and may only appoint its legislative staff members; Congress can delegate appointment of "inferior officers" (special
prosecutor) to either the President or the judiciary; the President may dismiss an independent counsel for good cause
Removal Powers — the Constitution is silent; the President may remove purely executive officers (Cabinet members) without cause, but
good cause is required to remove federal judges and other fixed-term administrative officials; Congress has no power of summary removal
Veto Power — President has 10 days to exercise his veto, which may then be overridden by 2/3 vote of each house; President has no
legislative power nor any power to impound funds
Pardon Power — extends only to federal crimes, not state crimes
Executive Privilege — to refuse to disclose information (military and diplomatic secrets); privilege must yield to important government
interests
Absolute immunity in civil suits for damages based on actions taken while in office

FOREIGN POLICY — Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces — may establish military governments in occupied territories; broad emergency powers

Treaty Power — requires consent of 2/3 of the Senate; where conflict between 2 laws exists apply the following hierarchy:

1. Constitution
2. Treaty/Act of Congress — equal footing; last in time prevails
3. Executive Agreement
4. State Law

Executive agreement — informal means by which the President can conduct day-to-day economic and business transactions between foreign
countries without Senate consent
Foreign Affairs — President's power is not plenary, but is shared with Congress; sources of such power include: 1) Commander-in-chief;
2) Treaty Power; 3) Congressional Authorization (delegation by Congress of its commerce power to the President)

MULTISTATE	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	
MIG 3	

Multistate Issue Graph

FEDERALISM
(Federal limitations on statiower)

Intergovernmental
Immunities

Dormant
Commerce
Clause

State Taxation of
Interstate
Corn merce

Supremacy Clause
Article VI, §2

STATE REGULATION OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT —  FG and its agencies are immune from state taxation and regulation; however, scriminatory

state taxes on federal contractors are valid; a state may not require a state coor's license
to build on federal property located within the state

FEDERAL PROPERTY POWER (Art. IV, §3) — Congress may dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territoryier property

of the United States; generally applies to wild animals, federal buildings and enclaves, militaos and
planes, Indian reservations

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE STATES — states are not immune under 10th or 11th amendments (FG may sue a statestate may

sue another state); FG may tax proprietary state businesses

10TH AMENDMENT — powers not delegated to the FG, nor constitutionally prohibited to the states, are reserved to the states; a weak limitati the federal

commerce power; FG may not compel states (rather than private entities) to enact a particular regulatory program [i.e.ate
radioactive waste or take title to it — NY v U.S.)]

NEGATIVE IMPLICATIONS DOCTRINE —  where Congress has not otherwise regulated, the states are free to regulate interstate commercelation must
be 1) non-discriminatory — may not favor or protect local interests, and 2) not unduly burdensorrstate interest
is balanced against the burden on interstate commerce such that no less restrictive alternative mis available

EXCEPTION — Market Participant Doctrine — where the state uses its own taxpayer funds to create the market, it may favor its own residenh subsidies

and hiring preferences

COMPARE: Article IV Privileges and Immunities Clause — prevents discrimination by one state against citizens of another state regarding bconomic

rights and liberties; N/A to corporations or aliens

REQUIREMENTS: state tax must be reasonable and nondiscriminatory to satisfy the Commerce Clause, and a substantial nexus (i.e. more minimum
contacts") must exist between the state interest and the activity being taxed to satisfy the Due Process Clause

GENERAL PRINCIPLES — goods or commodities "in the stream" of interstate commerce are exempt from state taxation, but may be taxed beginning

and end of transit, as well as if there is a break in transit
Instrumentalities (cars, planes, trains, etc.) may be taxed provided the tax is fairly apportioned to the extent of taxl use (taxable
situs requirement)

PREEMPTION — any state law in an area where Congress intends to occupy the field is unconstitutional (i.e., FAA, NLRB)

SUPERSESSION — any state law in actual conflict with a federal law will be unconstitutional. Note: where federal law only establishes minimandards,

states may afford greater protection by enacting stricter laws than required by federal standards (i.e. health and safety !lions)

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

pumite MIG 4	

Multistate Issue Graph	

j7

PROTECTION OF
INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS

Bill of Rights
(the 1st 10
Amendments
restrict the FG)

Retroactive
Legislation

State Action

Procedural
Due Process

Takings

Substantive
Due Process

SELECTIVE INCORPORATION — under the 14th Amendment Due Process Clause, most Bill of Rights limitations are applicable to the states, except the following:

2nd Amendment right to bear arms
5th Amendment right to a grand jury in criminal cases
7th Amendment right to jury trial for civil cases

CONTRACTS CLAUSE — prevents the states (not the FG) from enacting legislation which retroactively impairs the obligation of both public or private contracts; tra-
ditionally, the state's police power "modification" argument prevails over the plaintiff's "impairment" argument

EX POST FACTO LAWS — make criminal conduct that was not a crime when committed, or increase the punishment for a crime after its commission, or decrease

the amount of evidence needed to convict; such legislation which retroactively alters the criminal law is unconstitutional as applied to
both the state and federal governments

BILL OF ATTAINDER — legislative punishment of a named group or individual without judicial trial; applies to both state and federal governments

DEFINITION: a threshold requirement of government conduct which must be satisfied before private discrimination can be restricted under the 14th or 15th

Amendments; 13th Amendment can punish purely private acts of discrimination without showing state action

EXAMPLES OF STATE ACTION

PUBLIC FUNCTION — where a private entity is performing activities
traditionally and exclusively carried on by the state (e.g., a company town)

SIGNIFICANT STATE INVOLVEMENT —  public school system; use of state-
owned textbooks by a private school; "symbiotic relationship" or situation
where the state facilities, encourages, or authorizes discrimination in areas
such as housing, employment, or providing essential services

COMPARE: NO PUBLIC FUNCTION —  a privately owned utility company
under heavy state regulation; operation of a nursing home

COMPARE: NO STATE ACTION — ( granting of a liquor license; private school
discharging teachers; private school licensed by the state

the procedural safeguards of NOTICE
and a HEARING are available whenever
there is a serious deprivation of any life,
liberty or property interest

private property may not be taken for public
use without just compensation; property may
be taken by eminent domain, inverse condem-
nation, or by a state police power "regulation"

PROCEDURE — the court balances the severity of harm to the individual against the administrative costs of the
government to determine what, if any, safeguards are required

PROTECTED LIBERTY INTERESTS — commitment to a mental institution; right to contract; right to engage in
gainful employment; right to refuse unwanted medical care; right of natural parents in the care and custody of their
children; not injury to reputation

PROPERTY INTERESTS (entitlements) —  right to public education; welfare benefits; liability benefits; continued
public employment where termination can only be "for cause"; revocation of a driver's license

a taking consists of either a confiscation (public easement granted across owner's beachfront property) or a physical occupation (cable TV wire installed in all the
hallways of city rental units) or a regulation which denies the owner all reasonable economically viable use (post-purchase zoning ordinance which prohibits the
owner from erecting any permanent structures on his land)

ECONOMIC REGULATION  —
regulation must meet rational
basis scrutiny

FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS  —
regulation must meet strict
scrutiny standard

RIGHT TO VOTE — other than for minimum age or residency requirements or payment of reasonable filing fees, regulation must meet the
strict scrutiny standard. Generally voting districts for federal, state, and local elections are required to adhere very closely to the one person-
one vote principle (Reynolds v. Sims); exception for special limited-purpose districts (water storage district). Apportionment and districting
schemes which distort voting districts for racial or political purposes is unconstitutional gerrymandering
RIGHT TO TRAVEL — durational residency requirements are invalid for receiving state medical care or welfare benefits, but valid for
reduced tuition at state universities, obtaining a divorce, or registering to vote in a state primary election; foreign travel is subject only to
rational basis scrutiny
RIGHT TO PRIVACY (mnemonic CAMPER) — Contraception — applies to the sale and use of contraceptives by both married and
unmarried persons
Abortion — states may not prohibit abortions, but may regulate as long as they create no "undue burden" on the right to obtain an abortion
(Planned Parenthood v. Casey);  there is no right to abortion funding, even for indigents; consent of one or both parents or a judge, may be
required for a minor to obtain an abortion
Marriage — any restriction on the right to marry (interracial marriage) is prohibited
Procreation — closely related to contraception
Education — right of parents to educate their children outside of public schools
Relations — Right of related (not unrelated, not homosexual) persons to live together; "anti-group" ordinances generally prohibited

Mr

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
M I G 5

Multistate Issue Graph

EQUAL PROTECTION
an equal protection challenge arises where persons
similarly situated are treated differently

STRICT SCRUTINY — burden on the state to show the law is necessary (i.e. no less restrictive alternative means exists) to a compelling interest; applies to 3

areas: 1. Protected 1st Amendment Rights

2. Suspect Classes (mnemonic RAN)

1:t`

— Race — purposeful discrimination required; race-based affirmative action plans are subject to strict scrutiny whether
passed by the state (Richmond v Croson) or by the federal government  (Adarand Construction v Pena)

— Alienage — federal regulation is subject only to rational basis scrutiny, whereas state regulation is subject to strict scrutiny,

except where participation in government (policemen, teachers, serving on a jury list) is involved; illegal aliens are not sus-
pect

— National Origin

3. Fundamental Rights — Right to Vote

— Right to Travel
— Right to Privacy

Middle-tier (Intermediate) Scrutiny — burden on the state to show the law is substantially related to an important interest,
applies to 2 areas:

1.Gender — purposeful discrimination required; affirmative action

permitted subject to middle-tier test

2. Illegitimacy —

Rational Basis Scrutiny — burden is on plaintiff to show the law is not rationally related to any legitimate interest; applies to all
other classifications including 1. Poverty 2. Age 3. Mental Retardation 4. Necessities of life (food, shelter, clothing, medical care)
5. Economic and social welfare measures

zr

3 Standards
of Review 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

Pmbir• MIG 6

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST	

Multistate Issue Graph

FIRST AMENDMENT
GUARANTEES

Freedom of
Religion

FREE EXERCISE CHANGE — an individual's religious beliefs are absolutely protected (it would be unlikely that a government interest would be "compelling"

enough to punish a religious belief); conduct in furtherance of those beliefs may be regulated; e.g. use of peyote during religious
ceremonies is conduct which may be prohibited despite the individual's religious beliefs which required this practice  (Oregon v
Smith); a Jewish soldier may be compelled by the Air Force not to wear his yarmulke as part of his military uniform  (Goldman v
Weinberger); to regulate conduct the Court balances the severity of the burden on the individual's free exercise of religion
against the government interest in regulation

ESTABLISHMENT CLAUSE — Main Principle: the government may not aid or prefer one religion or sect over another, subject to strict scrutiny review;

— Test: to be constitutional, a sect-neutral government aid/program must satisfy 3 requirements under the Lemon test — the law
must 1) have a secular purpose; 2) have a primary effect that neither advances nor inhibits religion, and 3) not foster excessive
government entanglement with religion
— General Principles: government sponsored religious activities in public schools are unconstitutional (daily Bible readings; a
moment of silent, voluntary prayer; prohibition of the teaching of evolution); government aid to parochial schools may not be used
for religious purposes (use of textbooks, busing, health tests), but such aid is constitutional if made available to all students at
public and private schools
— Tax Deduction — reimbursing parents for tuition paid only to  religious schools is invalid; similarly, tax exemptions available only for
religious organizations (no sales tax for religious publications) is an invalid endorsement of religion, but property tax exemptions for
religious property have been upheld; religious displays (nativity scenes; menorahs) are permissible in public places provided no
one religion is being favored over another

Freedom of
Speech Approach

4 TYPES OF FACIAL ATTACKS — Overbreadth — statute punishes both protected as well as unprotected speech

Vagueness — statute is so unclearly defined that persons of ordinary intelligence must guess at its meaning
Prior Restraint — government action restricting free speech in advance of publication is generally invalid (licensing permits,
injunctions; 'gag' order barring the media from pretrial publicity); valid where national security interests are compelling, or the
regulation of obscene books and films where procedural safeguards are afforded
Unfettered Discretion — where a licensing official has unfettered discretion as to whether to confer or deny a permit

ESSAY APPROACH
Track One
Ask: Is the Speech the Statute is Regulating  Content Specific
(regulates the message) 

If content specific, then ask: Is the speech
being regulated Protected or Unprotected

Unprotected
includes clear and
present danger;
defamation;
obscenity; child
pornography; fight-
ing words; fraudulent
commercial speech

If "protected" then
apply strict scrutiny
i.e. — the statute
is unconstitutional
unless the govern-
ment can show the
law is necessary to a
compelling interest

unmentioned First Amendment
right encompassing activities
such as accepting government
benefits, public employment or
seeking membership in various
organizations

or 

Track Two
Content Neutral —Time, Place, Manner Regulation

(statute exists regardless of the message)  

If content neutral regulation of time, place, man-
ner, then apply a 3-part test: the regulation must
1)further a significant government interest

(noise, crowd, or litter control; traffic safety)
2) be narrowly tailored (no more restrictive than

necessary), and

3) leave open alternative channels of communi-
cation (commercial door-to-door solicitation
without invitation of the homeowner may be
restricted because other avenues of commu-
nication exist such as the mail, newspaper
advertisements, radio and television)

Freedom of the Press —  read together with the "free
speech" clause as a single
guarantee; generally the press
has no greater privilege than
the ordinary citizen

\

Public Employment and Bar Membership — may not be denied based upon an individual's group affiliation unless
the government can show the person 1) is a knowing (scienter) and active (dues-paying) member of a subversive
group and 2) has the specific intent to further the group's unlawful objectives  (Kevishian v Bd. of Rights)
Loyalty Oaths — generally invalid as a condition to public employment, however, an oath to support the Constitution
and oppose overthrow of the government has been upheld (Cole v Richardson)
Disclosure Requirements — to avoid a chilling effect on First Amendment activities disclosure is generally not
required, unless the government could make such membership illegal

Right of Access — both the public and the press have a right to attend a criminal trial, which may be outweighed by
an overriding government interest
Newsperson's Privilege — no privilege exists to refuse to disclose confidential sources to a grand jury  (Branzburg v
Hayes), but states may enact "shield" laws to afford such protection
Broadcasting — may be regulated more closely than the press due to the limited number of frequencies available —
"equal time" broadcasts may be required (Red Lion), yet on the other hand a newspaper need not provide equal space
for political rebuttal (Miami Herald)

pmlwMULTISTATE SPECIALIST

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
MIG 6 (continued)

Multistate Issue Graph

FIRST AMENDMENT
GUARANTEES

Freedom of
Speech Content 

most forms of speech are
protected subject to the strict
scrutiny standard; 6 forms of
unprotected speech may be
regulated 

Time, Place, Manner
Restrictions

reasonable restriction of speech
 conduct is permitted by means 	
of content-neutral time, place,	
manner regulations

CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER  — speech 1) directed at producing imminent unlawful action and 2) likely to produce

such action (Brandenburg v Ohio)

DEFAMATION — public officials, public figures, and limited public figures (those who voluntarily inject themselves in

the limelight) must prove malice: knowing falsity or reckless disregard for the truth  (Times v Sullivan)

— private person plaintiffs — constitutional limitations apply only where the defamatory statement

involves a matter of public concern, in which case negligence must be proven (no liability without
fault); punitive damages are not awarded absent proof of malice  (Gertz v Welch)

OBSCENITY — to be obscene, the speech must 1) appeal to the prurient interest in sex applying contemporary

community standards, 2) depict sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and 3) lack serious literary,
artistic, political, or scientific value (Miller v California)

— merely offensive language is not obscene; however, profane language on the airways may be

restricted (Pacifica Foundation) private possession of obscene materials in one's home is protected
(except for child pornography), although viewing, sale and distribution of such obscene material may
be vigorously regulated (movie ratings, zoning ordinances)

CHILD PORNOGRAPHY — outside the protection of the First Amendment; visual depictions of sexual conduct

including children may be punished even if not "obscene" under  Miller (N.Y. v Ferber)

FIGHTING WORDS — restricted speech includes personally abrasive language likely to invite the average person to

commit acts of physical violence (Chaplinsky v N.H.); however, statutes designed to punish
only particular viewpoints are invalid — e.g. fighting words that provoke violence on the basis of
race, religion, or gender (R.A.V. v St. Paul)

FRAUDULENT COMMERCIAL SPEECH — generally commercial speech is protected but may be restricted as to
false or deceptive advertising or illegal products; a lawful, narrowly tai-
lored regulation will be valid if it directly advances a substantial govern-
ment interest and there is a reasonable "fit" between the means used and
the legislation's end (Central Hudson; SUNY v Fox); attorneys may adver-
tise, provided it is not misleading; in-person solicitation for profit is not
protected.

OTHER AREAS — symbolic speech (where the medium itself is the message) may be restricted where the regulation
furthers an important government interest unrelated to the suppression of speech and the incidental
burden on speech is no greater than necessary; e.g. unconstitutional to ban flag burning (U.S. v
Eichman)

— freedom not to speak — allows children not to be compelled to salute or pledge allegiance to the
American flag, and allows a motorist to cover the motto ("Live Free or Die") portion of her license
plate

PUBLIC FORUMS — (streets, parks, sidewalks) — regulations must satisfy 3-part test (See Track Two test)

NONPUBLIC FORUMS — (jails, military bases, mailboxes, billboards, public buses, government buildings, airport

terminals)

— to be valid the regulations must be 1) viewpoint neutral (i.e. content may be regulated, but
limiting the presentation to only one view is impermissible) and 2) reasonably related to a
legitimate government interest

Licensing Statutes

REQUIREMENTS — to be valid, a licensing scheme must relate to an important government objective, be clearly written, narrowly

drawn, and reasonably regulate time, place and manner of speech

IF STATUTE IS VALID ON ITS FACE  — the speaker may not ignore the statute and must seek a permit. If the request is denied, even

wrongfully, the speaker must nonetheless seek prompt judicial relief before speaking; otherwise
a subsequent claim of violation of 1st Amendment rights will fail

IF STATUTE IS VOID ON ITS FACE  — due to overbreadth, vagueness, prior restraint, or unfettered discretion) — the speaker may

ignore the statute and speak, as well as successfully defend against any subsequent prosecution
(Shuttlesworth v Birmingham)

IF AN INJUNCTION IS ISSUED — where the speaker is enjoined from speaking, she must obey the injunction (even if it is facially

invalid) or appeal from it. Invalidity of the injunction must be established on appeal and is no defense
to a subsequent charge of contempt  (Walker v Birmingham)


NOTES

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW	

24

pimbv

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

MULTISTATE SPECIALIST

