



Page 152

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1322 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller owned a single family house. A buyer gave the seller a signed handwritten offer to purchase the
house. The offer was unconditional and sufficient to satisfy the statute of frauds, and when the seller signed an
acceptance an enforceable contract resulted. 

The house on the land had been the seller's home, but he had moved to an apartment, so the house was
vacant at all times relevant to the proposed transaction. Two weeks after the parties had entered into their
contract, one week after the buyer had obtained a written mortgage lending commitment from a lender, and
one week before the agreed-upon closing date, the house was struck by lightning and burned to the ground.
The loss was not insured, because three years earlier, the seller had let his homeowner's insurance policy
lapse after he had paid his mortgage debt in full. 

The handwritten contract was wholly silent as to matters of financing, risk of loss, and insurance. The buyer
declared the contract voided by the fire, but the seller asserted a right to enforce the contract despite the loss. 

There is no applicable statute. 

If a court finds for the seller, what is the likely reason? 

A: The contract was construed against the buyer, who drafted it.
B: The lender's written commitment to make a mortgage loan to the buyer made the contract of sale fully
binding on the buyer.
C: The risk of loss falls on the party in possession, and constructive possession passed to the buyer on the
contract date.
D: The risk of loss passed to the buyer on the contract date under the doctrine of equitable conversion.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Under the doctrine of equitable conversion, the risk of loss goes to the party with the
equitable title if the contract is silent. Equitable conversion occurs when the contract is capable of specific
performance. This contract was silent regarding the risk of loss and there were no conditions to be met. The
buyer thus had the equitable title at the time of the loss. If there is no statute, the Uniform Vendor and
Purchaser Act, which places the risk of loss on the one in possession, is not applicable. The court found for the
seller, and thus the minority common law rule, which places the risk on the seller under these facts, is
inapplicable. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is not relevant who drafted the contract. The contract was silent regarding any risk of
loss. As explained above, under the doctrine of equitable conversion, the equitable title passed to the buyer
when the seller signed the contract because the contract was unconditional and was silent regarding the risk of
loss. 

Answer B is incorrect. There were no conditions in the contract of sale. The contract became binding when the
seller signed the acceptance. The buyer would have been obligated to purchase even if the buyer had not
received a loan commitment. As explained above, under the doctrine of equitable conversion, the equitable
title passed to the buyer when the seller signed the contract because the contract was unconditional and was
silent regarding the risk of loss. 

Answer C is incorrect. Possession does not pass to the buyer until closing absent a contrary provision in the
contract of sale. As explained above, under the doctrine of equitable conversion, the equitable title passed to
the buyer when the seller signed the contract because the contract was unconditional and was silent regarding
the risk of loss.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 153

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1327 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A man died testate. The man's estate consisted of a residence as well as significant personal property. By his
duly probated will, the man devised the residence to a friend who was specifically identified in the will. The
residue of the estate was given to a stated charity. 

The man's friend, although alive at the time the man executed the will, predeceased the man. The friend's wife
and their child, who has a disability, survived the man. 

The value of the residence has increased significantly because of recent zoning changes. There is credible
extrinsic evidence that the man wanted his friend to own the residence after the man's death so that the friend
and his wife could care for their child there. 

There is no applicable statute. 

If both the charity and the child claim the residence, to whom should the estate distribute the residence? 

A: The charity, because the devise to the friend adeemed.
B: The charity, because the devise to the friend lapsed.
C: The child, because extrinsic evidence exists that the man's intent was to benefit the child.
D: The child, because no conditions of survivorship were noted in the will.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. A deceased person cannot take and hold title to property. If a named beneficiary
predeceases the testator, the gift to that beneficiary lapses. In this case, the gift to the friend lapsed because
the friend predeceased the man. The gift of the residence was a specific gift, and the lapse of this specific gift
passes the residence through the residuary clause of the will. The charity is the residuary taker. There is no
applicable anti-lapse statute which might have substituted the friend's child as the beneficiary of the bequest if
the friend were a protected beneficiary under the statute. Thus, Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. This option correctly concludes that the charity will prevail but misstates the reasoning.
Ademption occurs when a specific gift of property in the will is no longer in the estate at the time of death of the
testator. The man made a specific gift of the residence to the friend. At the time of the man's death, the man
still owned the residence, and thus there was no ademption. Still, a deceased person cannot take and hold title
to property. The specific gift of the residence to the friend, now deceased, lapsed and should pass by way of
the residuary clause in the will. 

Answer C is incorrect. The gift of the residence in the will was to the friend, who was specifically identified in
the will. Nothing was said in the will as to who should receive the residence if the friend predeceased the man,
and thus the gift lapsed and passes by the residuary clause to the residuary beneficiary, the charity. The will's
meaning is clear. Extrinsic evidence cannot be used to rewrite the will. The will contains no ambiguities which
might allow in extrinsic evidence. 

Answer D is incorrect. A deceased person cannot take and hold title to property. The specific gift of the
residence to the deceased person lapsed and should pass by way of the residuary clause in the will. The man
could have noted in the will who would have taken the property in the event the friend did not survive and thus
have prevented the lapse from occurring. But because the man did not state what would happen if the friend
did not survive him, the gift lapsed.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 154

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1332 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man owned property that he used as his residence. The man received a loan, secured by a mortgage on the
property, from a bank. Later, the man defaulted on the loan. The bank then brought an appropriate action to
foreclose the mortgage, was the sole bidder at the judicial sale, and received title to the property as a result of
the foreclosure sale. 

Shortly after the foreclosure sale, the man received a substantial inheritance. He approached the bank to
repurchase the property, but the bank decided to build a branch office on the property and declined to sell. 

If the man prevails in an appropriate action to recover title to the property, what is the most likely reason? 

A: He had used the property as his residence.
B: He timely exercised an equitable right of redemption.
C: The court applied the doctrine of exoneration.
D: The jurisdiction provides for a statutory right of redemption.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. If the man recovers title to the property, it would be because the jurisdiction provides a
statutory right of redemption. A jurisdiction may, by statute, provide a statutory right of redemption, which sets
out an additional time period after the foreclosure sale during which the prior mortgagor and perhaps others
have the option to pay a certain sum of money and redeem the title to the property. The right arises only by
statute and only after there has been a foreclosure of the mortgage. If the jurisdiction provides a statutory right
of redemption, it does not matter whether the property being redeemed is residential, commercial, or another
type of property, unless the statute so notes. Thus, Answer D is correct and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The equitable right of redemption arises prior to foreclosure. The equitable right of
redemption gave the man the right to pay what was due or otherwise perform his obligations after default and
have his title restored to him. The foreclosure of the mortgage ended the equitable right of redemption. The
foreclosure sale occurred and the man lost his ability to redeem under the equitable right of redemption. 

Answer C is incorrect. The common law doctrine of exoneration arises when a testator has died and the
testator's will devises property which is subject to a mortgage debt for which the testator was personally liable.
Exoneration would then direct that the mortgage debt be paid from the assets in the residuary clause. In this
case, the man did not die. The property was sold by way of foreclosure.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 155

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1333 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A farmer borrowed $100,000 from a bank and gave the bank a promissory note secured by a mortgage on the
farm that she owned. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage, which contained a due-on-sale
provision. 

A few years later, the farmer borrowed $5,000 from a second bank and gave it a promissory note secured by a
mortgage on her farm. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage. 

Subsequently, the farmer defaulted on her obligation to the first bank, which then validly accelerated the debt
and instituted nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings as permitted by the jurisdiction. The second bank received
notice of the foreclosure sale but did not send a representative to the sale. At the foreclosure sale, a buyer
who was not acting in collusion with the farmer outbid all other bidders and received a deed to the farm. 

Several months later, the original farmer repurchased her farm from the buyer, who executed a warranty deed
transferring the farm to her. After the farmer promptly and properly recorded that deed, the second bank
commenced foreclosure proceedings on the farm. The farmer denied the validity of the second bank's
mortgage. 

Does the second bank continue to have a valid mortgage on the farm? 

A: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
B: Yes, because the original owner reacquired title to the farm.
C: No, because the purchase at the foreclosure sale by the buyer under these facts eliminated the second
bank's junior mortgage lien.
D: No, because of the due-on-sale provision in the farmer's mortgage to the first bank.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The first bank had priority. The second bank was a necessary party to the foreclosure
proceeding and was given notice of the sale. When the second bank failed to appear at the foreclosure
proceeding, or to take any other action, the buyer at the sale received the title the farmer had at the time the
mortgage was given to the first bank, which was free of any mortgage liens. The buyer and the farmer did not
act in collusion, so there could be no claim of fraud when the farmer reacquired her original interest in the
farm. Thus, Answer C is correct and Answer B is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. The doctrine of estoppel by deed arises when a person executes a deed purporting to
convey an estate which either the person does not have or is larger than what the person has. If that person
later acquires that estate, then the subsequently acquired estate passes to the grantee. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed is inapplicable in this case because the farmer owned the farm at the time when she
executed both mortgages. 

Answer D is incorrect. This option correctly concludes that the second bank does not have a valid mortgage on
the farm but misstates the rationale. The due-on-sale clause allowed the first bank to accelerate the debt in the
event the farmer sold the farm without first seeking the permission of the first bank. The farmer never sold the
property and thus the due-on-sale clause was not involved. The property was sold at a foreclosure sale after
the farmer went into default.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 156

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1344 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller who owned land in fee simple entered into a valid written agreement to sell the land to a buyer by
installment purchase. The contract stipulated that the seller would deliver to the buyer, upon the payment of
the last installment due, "a warranty deed sufficient to convey a fee simple title." The contract contained no
other provision that could be construed as referring to title. 

The buyer entered into possession of the land. After making 10 of the 300 installment payments obligated
under the contract, the buyer discovered that there was outstanding a valid and enforceable mortgage on the
land, securing the payment of a debt in the amount of 25 percent of the purchase price that the buyer had
agreed to pay. There was no evidence that the seller had ever been late in payments due under the mortgage
and there was no evidence of any danger of insolvency of the seller. The value of the land was then four times
the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage. 

The buyer quit possession of the land, stopped making payments on the contract, and demanded that the
seller repay the amounts that the buyer had paid under the contract. After the seller refused the demand, the
buyer sued the seller to recover damages for the seller's alleged breach of the contract. 

In such action, should damages be awarded to the buyer? 

A: Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an obligation to convey marketable title is
implied.
B: Yes, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a mortgage and the outstanding mortgage
impairs the buyer's equity of redemption.
C: No, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a security device.
D: No, because the time for the seller to deliver marketable title has not arrived.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Title does not have to be marketable until the closing date when all payments have been
received. The buyer still has 290 payments to make. A mortgage can render title unmarketable but it is most
likely that title will be marketable when all payments have been made by the buyer under the agreement. The
seller has made all mortgage payments timely. The amount of the mortgage debt is 25 percent of the purchase
price the buyer will pay, and the land is four times more valuable than the debt owed, so it is likely that the
mortgage debt will be paid off by the time the seller must provide the warranty deed, and thus the buyer is not
entitled to damages at this time. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that in the absence of a contrary express agreement there is an obligation to
convey a marketable title. A mortgage is an interest held by a third party and does make title unmarketable.
The time for title to be marketable, however, is at the closing, when the seller is to provide the warranty deed.
The buyer has an obligation to make 290 more payments before the time for closing arises. If the title is not
marketable at the time when all payments have been made, then the buyer may to sue for damages. 

Answer B is incorrect. An installment purchase contract is often treated as a mortgage, and on default there
must be a foreclosure of the buyer's equity of redemption. In this case, the buyer may have stopped making
payments, but the seller has not yet sought to enforce the installment purchase contract. Because it is the
buyer who is seeking damages, the buyer's equity of redemption is not at issue. 

Answer C is incorrect. This option correctly concludes that damages will not be awarded but for the wrong
reason. An installment purchase contract is a seller's security device. Payments are made over time and, when
all payments have been made, a deed will be given. Title does not have to be marketable until all payments
have been made. An existing mortgage lien does make the title unmarketable, but it is likely that the lien will
have disappeared when the deed is to be given. A buyer may be able to object earlier only if it appears unlikely
that the seller will be able to provide a marketable title at that time. Under the facts given, the seller has made
all mortgage payments timely. The amount of the mortgage debt is 25 percent of the purchase price the buyer
will pay and the land is four times more valuable than the debt owed. It is most likely that title will be

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 157

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1344 - Real Property - Contract

marketable at the time when all payments have been made under the agreement. If not, that is the time for the
buyer to sue for damages.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 158

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1353 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

By a valid written contract, a seller agreed to sell land to a buyer. The contract stated, "The parties agree that
closing will occur on next May 1 at 10 a.m." There was no other reference to closing. The contract was silent
as to quality of title. 

On April 27, the seller notified the buyer that she had discovered that the land was subject to a longstanding
easement in favor of a corporation for a towpath for a canal, should the corporation ever want to build a canal. 

The buyer thought it so unlikely that a canal would be built that the closing should occur notwithstanding this
outstanding easement. Therefore, the buyer notified the seller on April 28 that he would expect to close on
May 1. 

When the seller refused to close, the buyer sued for specific performance. 

Will the buyer prevail? 

A: No, because the easement renders the seller's title unmarketable.
B: No, because rights of third parties are unresolved.
C: Yes, because the decision to terminate the contract for title not being marketable belongs only to the buyer.
D: Yes, because the seller did not give notice of the easement a reasonable time before the closing date.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. If a contract of sale is silent as to quality of title, the court will imply a marketable title, and
an easement does affect the marketability of title. But while the seller has a duty to deliver a marketable title,
the requirement of marketable title is for the benefit of the buyer. The buyer may waive the right to have a
marketable title, which is what the buyer did in this fact situation. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect because, as explained above, even though the easement renders the title unmarketable,
the buyer may waive the right to have a marketable title, as occured here. 

Answer B is incorrect. The corporation does have an easement on the land and the easement does render title
unmarketable. However, the corporation's rights in the land are resolved--the corporation has an easement on
the property. The sale of the land will not affect the corporation's easement. As explained above, the
requirement of marketable title is for the benefit of the buyer, and the buyer may waive the right to receive a
marketable title. The buyer may accept the land with the easement, as the buyer did in this fact situation. 

Answer D is incorrect. This option correctly concludes that the buyer will prevail but misstates the rationale. If a
contract of sale is silent as to quality of title, the court will imply a marketable title, and an easement does
affect the marketability of title. Title is to be marketable at the time of closing. If a buyer discovers a defect
which makes title objectionable, the buyer must notify the seller with specificity and allow the seller a
reasonable time to cure the defect. Under these facts, the buyer waived the right to have a marketable title and
is not asking the seller to remove the defect, so the buyer can enforce the contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 159

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1370 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

Six years ago, a landlord and a tenant entered into a 10-year commercial lease of land. The written lease
provided that, if a public entity under the power of eminent domain condemned any part of the land, the lease
would terminate and the landlord would receive the entire condemnation award. Thereafter, the city
condemned approximately two-thirds of the land. 

The tenant notified the city and the landlord that an independent appraisal of the value of the tenant's
possessory interest established that it substantially exceeded the tenant's obligation under the lease and that
the tenant was entitled to share the award. The appraisal was accurate. 

In an appropriate action among the landlord, the tenant, and the city as to the right of the tenant to a portion of
the condemnation award, for whom will the court likely find? 

A: The landlord, because the condemnation superseded and canceled the lease.
B: The landlord, because the parties specifically agreed as to the consequences of condemnation.
C: The tenant, because the landlord breached the landlord's implied warranty of quiet enjoyment.
D: The tenant, because otherwise the landlord would be unjustly enriched.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The landlord and the tenant agreed in the lease that if any part of the land was
condemned, the lease would terminate and the landlord would receive the entire condemnation award. 

Answer A is incorrect. The option correctly concludes that the landlord will prevail but misstates the reasoning.
If the city had condemned all of the land, the lease would have terminated and the tenant might have been
able to receive the sum by which the award exceeds the tenant's obligations under the lease. The city
condemned only two-thirds of the land. Under these facts, the lease provision provided that the lease would
terminate and that the landlord would receive the entire condemnation award. 

Answer C is incorrect. The taking of all or part of leased land under the power of eminent domain is not a
breach of the landlord's warranty of quiet enjoyment. The condemnation occurred through no fault of the
landlord. Under these facts, the lease provision provided that the lease would terminate and that the landlord
would receive the entire condemnation award. 

Answer D is incorrect. If all the leased premises had been condemned, the lease would have terminated by
operation of law. Here, only a portion of the land was condemned. If the lease had not otherwise provided, the
tenant's obligation under the lease to pay rent would have continued (though it might have been abated). Here
the tenant and the landlord agreed that the lease would terminate upon condemnation of any portion of the
land and that the landlord could retain all of the condemnation award. There was no unjust enrichment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 160

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1373 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A niece inherited vacant land from her uncle. She lived in a distant state and decided to sell the land to a
colleague who was interested in purchasing the land as an investment. They orally agreed upon a price, and,
at the colleague's insistence, the niece agreed to provide him with a warranty deed without any exceptions.
The price was paid, the warranty deed was delivered, and the deed was promptly and properly recorded.
Neither the niece nor the colleague had, at that point, ever seen the land. 

After recording the deed, the colleague visited the land for the first time and discovered that it had no access to
any public right-of-way and that none of the surrounding lands had ever been held in common ownership with
any previous owner of the tract of land.  

The colleague sued the niece for damages. 

For whom will the court find? 

A: The colleague, because lack of access makes title unmarketable.
B: The colleague, because the covenants of warranty and quiet enjoyment in the deed were breached.
C: The niece, because no title covenants were breached.
D: The niece, because the agreement to sell was oral.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Lack of access may render title unmarketable under the contract of sale; however, the
time to challenge marketable title is prior to the acceptance of the deed. Thus, Answer A is incorrect because
the colleague accepted the deed, completing the contract of sale. 

Under the doctrine of merger, the remedy, if any, is on the title covenant in the deed. Lack of access does not
violate any of the title covenants. The colleague received the title the niece said she had. No one had a
superior title and thus the covenants of seisin, right to convey, quiet enjoyment, and general warranty were not
breached. The covenant against encumbrances provides protection for interests held by third parties such as
easements for access. The land was not subject to an express easement nor may any easement be implied
based on either prior use or necessity because the lands were never held in common ownership. Thus,
Answer C is correct and Answer B is incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. This option correctly concludes that the niece will prevail but misstates the reasoning.
The Statute of Frauds does require that an agreement to sell land be in writing. Nonetheless, if the parties
have both fully performed under an oral contract, the relationship is the same as if the statute had been fully
complied with initially. It is too late for the colleague, having accepted the deed, to now complain that the
Statute of Frauds was not complied with because the agreement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 161

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1377 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A landowner mortgaged her land to a nationally chartered bank as security for a loan. The mortgage provided
that the bank could, at its option, declare the entire loan due and payable if all or any part of the land, or an
interest therein, was sold or transferred without the bank's prior written consent. 

Subsequently, the landowner wanted to sell the land to a neighbor by an installment land contract, but the
bank refused to consent. The neighbor's credit was good, and all mortgage payments to the bank were fully
current. 

The landowner and the neighbor consulted an attorney about their proposed transaction, their desire to
complete it, and the bank's refusal to consent. 

What would the attorney's best advice be? 

A: Even if the landowner transfers to the neighbor by land contract, the bank may accelerate the debt and
foreclose if the full amount is not paid.
B: The due-on-sale clause is void as an illegal restraint on alienation of the fee simple, so they may proceed.
C: By making the transfer in land contract form, the landowner will prevent enforcement of the due-on-sale
clause if the mortgage payments are kept current.
D: The due-on-sale clause has only the effect that the proposed transfer will automatically make the neighbor
personally liable on the debt, whether or not the neighbor specifically agrees to assume it.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The mortgage contains a valid due-on-sale clause. If the landowner conveys the land
without the prior consent of the bank, the bank may accelerate the debt. A sale by use of an installment land
contract is a transfer of the land which can trigger the due-on-sale clause. 

Answer B is incorrect. A due-on-sale clause in a mortgage granted to a nationally chartered bank is valid and
is not an illegal restraint on alienation. The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act preempts any state
law to the contrary. 

Answer C is incorrect. The landowner may sell the land by an installment land contract. Such a sale would be
a transfer, however, which would allow the bank to accelerate the debt if the prior consent of the bank had not
been received. It is irrelevant whether the mortgage payments are current at the time of the land contract
execution. 

Answer D is incorrect. The proposed transfer will not make the neighbor personally liable on the debt. The
neighbor would be personally liable on the mortgage debt only if the neighbor expressly assumed the
mortgage debt. If the transfer is made without its consent, the bank may accelerate the debt. If the entire debt
is not paid, the bank could bring a foreclosure proceeding.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 162

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1380 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man contacted his lawyer regarding his right to use a path that was on his neighbor's vacant land. 

Fifteen years ago, after a part of the path located on his land and connecting his cabin to the public highway
washed out, the man cleared a small part of his neighbor's land and rerouted a section of the path through the
neighbor's land. 

Twelve years ago, the neighbor leased her land to some hunters. For the next 12 years, the hunters and the
man who had rerouted the path used the path for access to the highway. 

A month ago, the neighbor discovered that part of the path was on her land. The neighbor told the man that
she had not given him permission to cross her land and that she would be closing the rerouted path after 90
days. 

The man's land and the neighbor's land have never been in common ownership. 

The period of time necessary to acquire rights by prescription in the jurisdiction is 10 years. The period of time
necessary to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years. 

What should the lawyer tell the man concerning his right to use the rerouted path on the neighbor's land? 

A: The man has fee title by adverse possession of the land included in the path.
B: The man has an easement by necessity to use the path.
C: The man has an easement by prescription to use the path.
D: The man has no right to use the path.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The man is claiming a right to use the land of the neighbor, which is an easement. An
easement by prescription requires that the use be without the neighbor's permission for the requisite period of
time. The man has used the path for the past 15 years without the neighbor's permission. His use was open
and notorious in that the neighbor could have seen him. His use was continuous and without interruption by
the neighbor. His use was actual. An easement acquired by prescription need not be exclusive. With an
easement, the owner may make any use of the easement area that does not interfere with the use made by
the easement holder unless the easement is expressly noted as exclusive. The use by the neighbor's tenants
(the hunters) did not interfere with the man's use, nor did his use interfere with theirs. Thus, Answer C is
correct and Answer D is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. The man's use of the neighbor's land for the past 15 years was without the permission
of the neighbor and was thus adverse. It was open and notorious in that the neighbor could have seen him. His
use was continuous and without interruption by the neighbor. His use was actual. These elements are needed
to acquire a title by adverse possession. The man's use of the land, however, was not exclusive. The man
shared the use of the path with the neighbor's tenants. Thus the man did not acquire a title by adverse
possession. In addition, the man claims only a right to use the land, which would be an easement rather than
ownership of the land itself. 

Answer B is incorrect. An easement by necessity may be implied only if the lands had been in common
ownership and the strict necessity for the easement existed at the time of severance. The man's land and the
neighbor's land have never been in common ownership.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 163

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1387 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Twenty-five years ago, a man who owned a 45-acre tract of land conveyed 40 of the 45 acres to a developer
by warranty deed. The man retained the rear five-acre portion of the land and continues to live there in a large
farmhouse. 

The deed to the 40-acre tract was promptly and properly recorded. It contained the following language: 

"It is a term and condition of this deed, which shall be a covenant running with the land and binding on all
owners, their heirs and assigns, that no use shall be made of the 40-acre tract of land except for residential
purposes." 

Subsequently, the developer fully developed the 40-acre tract into a residential subdivision consisting of 40
lots with a single-family residence on each lot. 

Although there have been multiple transfers of ownership of each of the 40 lots within the subdivision, none of
them included a reference to the quoted provision in the deed from the man to the developer, nor did any deed
to a subdivision lot create any new covenants restricting use. 

Last year, a major new medical center was constructed adjacent to the subdivision. A doctor who owns a
house in the subdivision wishes to relocate her medical offices to her house. For the first time, the doctor
learned of the restrictive covenant in the deed from the man to the developer. The applicable zoning ordinance
permits the doctor's intended use. The man, as owner of the five-acre tract, however, objects to the doctor's
proposed use of her property. 

There are no governing statutes other than the zoning code. The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is
unmodified in the jurisdiction. 

Can the doctor convert her house in the subdivision into a medical office? 

A: No, because the owners of lots in the subdivision own property benefitted by the original residential
covenant and have the sole right to enforce it.
B: No, because the man owns property benefitted by the original restrictive covenant and has a right to
enforce it.
C: Yes, because the original restrictive covenant violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.
D: Yes, because the zoning ordinance allows the doctor's proposed use and preempts the restrictive covenant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The restrictive covenant created 25 years ago placed a burden on the 40-acre tract of
land and gave the right to enforce the promise to the man who retained the ownership of the benefitted
five-acre tract of land. The man may enforce the promise because he owns the benefitted tract of land. It may
be that the owners in the subdivision also may enforce the promise; however, the man, as owner of the original
benefitted five-acre tract of land, also may enforce it. Thus, Answer B is correct and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. The restrictive covenant is not an interest which is affected by the Rule Against
Perpetuities. The restrictive covenant is still valid, and no facts are stated which indicate that it has terminated. 

Answer D is incorrect. The zoning ordinance does allow the doctor's proposed use. The zoning ordinance does
not, however, preempt the valid restrictive covenant. The restrictive covenant, as the more restrictive of the
two in terms of its limitations, prevails.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 164

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1389 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Five years ago, an investor who owned a vacant lot in a residential area borrowed $25,000 from a friend and
gave the friend a note for $25,000 due in five years, secured by a mortgage on the lot. The friend neglected to
record the mortgage. The fair market value of the lot was then $25,000. 

Three years ago, the investor discovered that the friend had not recorded his mortgage and in consideration of
$50,000 conveyed the lot to a buyer. The fair market value of the lot was then $50,000. The buyer knew
nothing of the friend's mortgage. One month thereafter, the friend discovered the sale to the buyer, recorded
his $25,000 mortgage, and notified the buyer that he held a $25,000 mortgage on the lot. 

Two years ago, the buyer needed funds. Although she told her bank of the mortgage claimed by the investor's
friend, the bank loaned her $15,000, and she gave the bank a note for $15,000 due in two years secured by a
mortgage on the lot. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage. At that time, the fair market value
of the lot was $75,000. 

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "No conveyance or mortgage of real property shall be good
against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law." 

Both notes are now due and both the investor and the buyer have refused to pay. The lot is now worth only
$50,000. 

What are the rights of the investor's friend and the bank in the lot? 

A: Both mortgages are enforceable liens and the friend's has priority because it was first recorded.
B: Both mortgages are enforceable liens, but the bank's has priority because the buyer was an innocent
purchaser for value.
C: Only the friend's mortgage is an enforceable lien, because the bank had actual and constructive notice of
the investor's fraud.
D: Only the bank's mortgage is an enforceable lien, because the buyer was an innocent purchaser for value.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The friend does not have an enforceable lien. The friend did have a lien on the lot when
the investor granted the friend a mortgage. The friend, however, did not record the mortgage. The investor
then sold the lot to the buyer. The buyer had no actual notice of the mortgage to the friend. The buyer had no
notice based on possession because the lot was vacant. The buyer had no constructive notice of the mortgage
because the mortgage to the friend had not been recorded when the buyer received title. The lot is located in a
notice jurisdiction. The fact that the buyer was an innocent purchaser for value at the time the buyer received
title qualifies the buyer for protection in a notice jurisdiction. The buyer took the lot free of any prior unrecorded
documents; specifically, the friend's mortgage. The fact that the friend later recorded the mortgage is irrelevant
in a notice jurisdiction--the notice given to the buyer was given too late. The bank's mortgage is an enforceable
lien. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answers A, B, and C are incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 165

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1394 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A grantor owned two tracts of land, one of 15 acres and another of five acres. The two tracts were a mile
apart. 

Fifteen years ago, the grantor conveyed the smaller tract to a grantee. The grantor retained the larger tract.
The deed to the grantee contained, in addition to proper legal descriptions of both properties and
identifications of the parties, the following: 

I, the grantor, bind myself and my heirs and assigns that in the event that the larger tract that I now retain is
ever offered for sale, I will notify the grantee and his heirs and assigns in writing, and the grantee and his heirs
and assigns shall have the right to purchase the larger tract for its fair market value as determined by a board
consisting of three qualified expert independent real estate appraisers. 

With appropriate references to the other property and the parties, there followed a reciprocal provision that
conferred upon the grantor and her heirs and assigns a similar right to purchase the smaller tract, purportedly
binding the grantee and his heirs and assigns. 

Ten years ago, a corporation acquired the larger tract from the grantor. At that time, the grantee had no
interest in acquiring the larger tract and by an appropriate written document released any interest he or his
heirs or assigns might have had in the larger tract. 

Last year, the grantee died. The smaller tract passed by the grantee's will to his daughter. She has decided to
sell the smaller tract. However, because she believes the corporation has been a very poor steward of the
larger tract, she refuses to sell the smaller tract to the corporation even though she has offered it for sale in the
local real estate market. 

The corporation brought an appropriate action for specific performance after taking all of the necessary
preliminary steps in its effort to exercise its rights to purchase the smaller tract. 

The daughter asserted all possible defenses. 

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction. 

If the court rules for the daughter, what is the reason? 

A: The provision setting out the right to purchase violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.
B: The grantee's release 10 years ago operates as a waiver regarding any right to purchase that the
corporation might have.
C: The two tracts of land were not adjacent parcels of real estate, and thus the right to purchase is in gross
and is therefore unenforceable.
D: Noncompliance with a right to purchase gives rise to a claim for money damages, but not for specific
performance.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Fifteen years ago each of the parties granted a reciprocal right of first refusal (or a
preemptive right) to the other. A right of first refusal is a conditional option. It provides that if the owner ever
decides to sell the property, the one holding the right of first refusal has the right to purchase it. In this case,
the price for the purchase was to be set by three qualified expert independent real estate appraisers and was
thus fair. The right, however, violates the common law Rule Against Perpetuities. The right to purchase is
triggered by the decision of one to sell his or her land. In this case, that decision might occur more than 21
years after a life in being at the time the right was granted. Thus, under the common law, the right of first
refusal is struck ab initio. The question notes that the common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in
this jurisdiction. Thus, there are no applicable statutory reforms to the rule, and because the question is written
with the daughter winning, any statute which may exempt a commercial transaction is inapplicable. Thus,

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 166

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1394 - Real Property - Ownership

Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. Ten years ago, the grantee had the right to purchase the larger tract of land under the
right of first refusal (or a preemptive right) given to the grantee. The grantee chose not to exercise that right.
The fact that the grantee chose not to exercise the right of first refusal has no effect on whether the grantor
can exercise the reciprocal right of first refusal regarding the grantee's land. However, as described above, the
reciprocal rights of first refusal violated the common law Rule Against Perpetuities and would be struck at
once, with neither party able to enforce the right.  

Answer C is incorrect. A right of first refusal may have been granted as to only one of the tracts of land. Here,
the rights were reciprocal as to two tracts of land. It does not matter that the tracts were not adjacent. As
explained above, however, the reciprocal rights of first refusal violate the common law Rule Against
Perpetuities and would be struck at once, with neither party able to enforce the right. 

Answer D is incorrect. As explained above, the reciprocal right of first refusal violates the common law Rule
Against Perpetuities. Thus, it would be struck at once, with neither party able to enforce the right either for
money damages or for specific performance.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.




Page 167

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1402 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord and a tenant orally agreed to a commercial tenancy for a term of six months beginning on July 1.
Rent was to be paid by the first day of each month, and the tenant paid the first month's rent at the time of the
agreement. 

When the tenant arrived at the leased premises on July 1, the tenant learned that the previous tenant had not
vacated the premises at the end of her lease term on May 31 and did not intend to vacate. The tenant then
successfully sued the previous tenant for possession. The tenant did not inform the landlord of the eviction
action until after the tenant received possession. 

The tenant then sued the landlord, claiming damages for that portion of the lease period during which the
tenant was not in possession. 

If the court finds for the landlord, what will be the most likely explanation? 

A: By suing the previous tenant for possession, the tenant elected that remedy in lieu of a suit against the
landlord.
B: The landlord had delivered the legal right of possession to the tenant.
C: The tenant failed to timely vacate as required to sue for constructive eviction.
D: The tenant had not notified the landlord before bringing the eviction action.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The landlord granted the legal right of possession to the tenant, which means that neither
the landlord nor anyone holding of the landlord prevented the tenant from going into possession at the
commencement of the lease term. The previous tenant's lease term had ended before the new lease term
began. The previous tenant then became a trespasser and was not holding of the landlord. As stated in the
question, the court found for the landlord, and thus there is no rule in this jurisdiction that the landlord need
also put the tenant into actual possession. 

Answer A is incorrect. The tenant did not waive any claim against the landlord by first suing the previous
tenant. In the absence of a statute requiring delivery of actual possession of the premises, a landlord need
deliver only legal possession to the tenant on the first day of the lease term. The previous tenant's lease term
had ended automatically before the new lease term began. The previous tenant then became a trespasser and
was not holding of the landlord. Legal possession was delivered to the tenant because neither the landlord nor
one holding of the landlord was in possession at the commencement of the tenant's lease. 

Answer C is incorrect. The tenant has not been constructively evicted. The previous tenant's lease term had
ended automatically before the new lease term began. The previous tenant then became a trespasser and
was not holding of the landlord. The landlord prevailed, and thus this jurisdiction follows the view that a
landlord has a duty to deliver only legal possession to the tenant at the commencement of the lease and need
not also deliver actual possession. Legal possession was delivered to the tenant because neither the landlord
nor one holding of the landlord was in possession at the commencement of the tenant's lease term. 

Answer D is incorrect. The landlord delivered legal possession to the tenant, which means that neither the
landlord nor one holding of the landlord was in possession at the commencement of the tenant's lease term.
The previous tenant's lease term had ended automatically before the new lease term began. The previous
tenant then became a trespasser and was not holding of the landlord. The landlord prevailed, and thus this
jurisdiction follows the rule that the landlord need not deliver actual possession to a new tenant. The tenant did
not need to notify the landlord of the eviction suit because it was the tenant's responsibility to evict the previous
tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 168

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1412 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

Six months ago, a man told his cousin that he would give her his farm as a gift on her next birthday. The
cousin then entered into a valid written contract to sell the farm to an investor with the closing to take place
"one week after [the cousin's] next birthday." 

The man failed to convey the farm to the cousin on her birthday. One week after the cousin's birthday, on the
intended closing date, the investor first learned of the cousin's inability to convey the farm because the man
had breached his promise. The investor considered suing the cousin but realized that she could not compel
the cousin to convey the farm because it was still owned by the man. 

Two weeks after the cousin's birthday, the man died. Under his valid will, the man devised the farm to the
cousin. Within a week, the executor of the man's estate gave the cousin an executor's deed to the farm in
compliance with state law. The investor promptly learned of this transfer and demanded that the cousin convey
the farm to her. The cousin refused. 

The investor sued the cousin for specific performance. 

Who will likely prevail? 

A: The cousin, because the contract to convey was not signed by the legal owner of the farm as of the date of
the contract and was therefore void.
B: The cousin, because she received title by devise rather than by conveyance.
C: The investor, because the contract to convey merged into the executor's deed to the cousin.
D: The investor, because the contract to convey remained enforceable by her within a reasonable period of
time after the proposed closing date.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The cousin and the investor had a valid contract for the sale of the farm. The contract did
not specify that time was of the essence, and thus the investor should be able to enforce the contract within a
reasonable time after the proposed closing date. The cousin acquired the land two weeks after the intended
closing date, which was within a reasonable time period afterward. 

Answer A is incorrect because a person can sign a valid contract of sale for land even if that person does not
own the land at the time of signing. 

Answer B is incorrect because the cousin and the investor had a valid contract for the sale of land, and it does
not matter whether the cousin acquired title to the land by conveyance or by will. 

Answer C is incorrect because although the contract of sale between the cousin and the investor might merge
on the conveyance of the farm by the cousin to the investor, the executor's deed to the cousin had no effect on
the contract between the cousin and the investor.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 169

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1417 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A mother who died testate devised her farm to her son and her daughter as "joint tenants with right of
survivorship." The language of the will was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of
survivorship, which is unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. After the mother's death and with the daughter's
permission, the son took sole possession of the farm and agreed to pay the daughter a stipulated monthly
rent. 

Several years later, the son defaulted on a personal loan, and his creditor obtained a judgment against him for
$30,000. The creditor promptly and properly filed the judgment. 

A statute of the jurisdiction provides: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing, be a lien on the
real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered." 

Six months later, the son died. 

There are no other applicable statutes. 

Is the creditor entitled to enforce its judgment lien against the farm? 

A: No, because the daughter became sole owner of the farm free and clear of the creditor's judgment lien
when the son died.
B: No, because the son's interest was severed from the daughter's interest upon the filing of the lien.
C: Yes, because a joint tenancy cannot be created by devise, and the son died owning a 50% undivided
interest in the farm as a tenant in common.
D: Yes, because the son died owning a 50% undivided interest in the farm as a joint tenant with the daughter.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A joint tenancy with right of survivorship can be created by devise or by conveyance
provided the intent to create a right of survivorship is expressly stated, and in this case the mother's devise
included express words of survivorship. Thus, Answer C is incorrect. 

The joint tenancy with right of survivorship ended on the death of the son, and the daughter, as the survivor,
became the sole owner of the farm. Thus, Answer D is incorrect. 

With respect to the judgment lien, the recording of such a lien against a joint tenant with right of survivorship
allows the judgment creditor to obtain a writ of execution but does not effect a severance of the joint tenancy.
The son's creditor failed to execute on the judgment against the son before his death, and the daughter, as the
survivor, became the sole owner of the farm. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although this response correctly concludes that the creditor cannot enforce its lien
against the farm, it misstates the rationale.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 170

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1431 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A landowner borrowed $100,000 from a lender and executed a valid mortgage on a commercial tract of land to
secure the debt. The lender promptly recorded the mortgage. 

A year later, the landowner conveyed the same tract to a developer by a deed that expressly stated that the
conveyance was subject to the mortgage to the lender and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to
pay the mortgage obligation as part of the consideration for the purchase. The mortgage was properly
described in the deed, and the deed was properly executed by the landowner; however, because there was no
provision or place in the deed for the developer to sign, he did not do so. The developer promptly recorded the
deed. 

The developer made the monthly mortgage payments of principal and interest for six payments but then
stopped payments and defaulted on the mortgage obligation. The lender properly instituted foreclosure
procedures in accordance with the governing law. After the foreclosure sale, there was a $10,000 deficiency
due to the lender. Both the landowner and the developer had sufficient assets to pay the deficiency. 

There is no applicable statute in the jurisdiction other than the statute relating to foreclosure proceedings. 

At the appropriate stage of the foreclosure action, which party will the court decide is responsible for payment
of the deficiency? 

A: The developer, because he accepted delivery of the deed from the landowner and in so doing accepted the
terms and conditions of the deed.
B: The developer, because he is estopped by his having made six monthly payments to the lender.
C: The landowner, because the developer was not a signatory to the deed.
D: The landowner, because he was the maker of the note and the mortgage, and at most the developer is
liable only as a guarantor of the landowner's obligation.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The deed stated that the conveyance was subject to the lender's mortgage and that the
grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as part of the consideration. While the
developer did not sign the deed, the developer accepted the deed and recorded it, thereby agreeing to the
mortgage assumption. When the developer assumed the mortgage obligation, the developer became
personally liable to the lender, and the landowner became merely a surety. The developer, having sufficient
assets to pay the deficiency judgment, must do so. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although this response correctly concludes that the developer is responsible for
payment of the deficiency, it misstates the reason. It does not matter whether or for how long the developer
paid on the mortgage. As stated above, the deed to the developer stated that the conveyance was subject to
the lender's mortgage and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as
part of the consideration. The developer, having sufficient assets to pay the deficiency judgment, must do so. 

Answer C is incorrect. The developer received a deed poll (a deed that is signed only by the grantor, in this
case the landowner). The grantee of a deed poll need not sign the deed, but if the grantee accepts the deed,
he or she accepts all conditions in it. The developer did accept the deed and recorded it. The deed stated that
the conveyance was subject to the lender's mortgage and that the grantee (the developer) expressly assumed
and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as part of the consideration. When the developer assumed the
mortgage obligation, the developer became personally liable to the lender, and the landowner became merely
a surety. The developer, having sufficient assets to pay the deficiency judgment, must do so. 

Answer D is incorrect. In the deed to the developer it was stated that the conveyance was subject to the
lender's mortgage and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as part
of the consideration. The developer accepted the deed and recorded it, thereby agreeing to the mortgage
assumption and becoming more than a mere guarantor of the obligation. When the developer assumed the

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 171

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1431 - Real Property - Mortgages

mortgage obligation, the developer became personally liable to the mortgagee, and the landowner became
merely a surety. The developer, having sufficient assets to pay the deficiency judgment, must do so.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 172

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1434 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

Seven years ago, a man, his sister, and his cousin became equal owners, as tenants in common, of a house.
Until a year ago, the man lived in the house alone. The sister and the cousin are longtime residents of another
state. 

One year ago, the man moved to an apartment and rented the house to a tenant for three years under a lease
that the man and the tenant both signed. The tenant has since paid the rent each month to the man. 

Recently, the sister and the cousin learned about the rental. They brought an appropriate action against the
tenant to have the lease declared void and to have the tenant evicted. The tenant raised all available
defenses. 

What will the court likely decide? 

A: The lease is void, and the tenant is evicted.
B: The lease is valid, and the tenant retains exclusive occupancy rights for the balance of the term.
C: The lease is valid, but the tenant is evicted because one-third of the lease term has expired and the man
had only a one-third interest to transfer.
D: The lease is valid, and the tenant is not evicted but must share possession with the sister and the cousin.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. An individual tenant in common may transfer his or her undivided interest by a lease for a
term of years. The tenant obtains only the transferor's concurrent right of possession with the other tenants in
common. The man, as a tenant in common, validly transferred his interest in the tenancy in common to the
tenant by a lease for a term of years. The tenant must, however, share the right of possession with the other
cotenants, the sister and the cousin, for the term of the lease. The man must share the rental income with the
sister and the cousin. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect because it incorrectly states that the tenant has a right of exclusive occupancy. 

Answer C is incorrect. This response correctly states that the lease is valid but incorrectly says that the tenant
is evicted. The tenant must, however, share the right of possession with the other cotenants, the sister and the
cousin, for the term of the lease. It is not relevant that the tenant has been in sole possession for one-third of
the lease term, nor is the term of the lease relevant. The man must share the rental income with the sister and
the cousin.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 173

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1442 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A man decided to give his farm to his nephew. The man took a deed to his attorney and told the attorney to
deliver the deed to the nephew upon the man's death. The man also told the attorney to return the deed to him
if he asked. None of these instructions to the attorney were in writing, and the deed was not recorded. The
man then e-mailed the nephew informing him of the arrangement. 

Shortly thereafter, the nephew died testate. In his will, he devised the farm to his daughter. Several years later,
the man died intestate, survived by two sons. The nephew's daughter immediately claimed ownership of the
farm and demanded that the attorney deliver the deed to her. 

Must the attorney deliver the deed to the daughter? 

A: No, because a gratuitous death escrow is void unless supported by a written contract.
B: No, because the man never placed the deed beyond his control.
C: Yes, because the death of the nephew rendered the gratuitous death escrow irrevocable by the man.
D: Yes, because the deed to the nephew was legally delivered when the man took it to his attorney.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. When the man delivered the deed to his attorney with instructions to deliver it to the
nephew on his death, he was attempting to create a valid death escrow. Neither a written nor an oral contract
is required for a valid death escrow, since most are gratuitous. To create a valid death escrow, however, the
man had to place the deed beyond his control, reserving no power over it once it had been given to the
attorney. Because the man instructed the attorney to return the deed to the man if he asked, the man did not
place the deed beyond his control, and no death escrow was created. Thus, Answer B is correct.  

Answer A is incorrect because a gratuitous death escrow does not need to be supported by a written contract. 

Answer C is incorrect because a valid death escrow was never created, and the subsequent death of the
nephew is of no consequence. 

Answer D is incorrect because the deed was never legally delivered to the nephew. Because the man
instructed the attorney to return the deed to the man if he so requested, the man did not place the deed
beyond his control, and no death escrow was created.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 174

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1449 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A businesswoman owned two adjoining tracts of land, one that was improved with a commercial rental building
and another that was vacant and abutted a river. 

Twenty years ago, the businesswoman conveyed the vacant tract to a grantee by a warranty deed that the
businesswoman signed but the grantee did not. The deed contained a covenant by the grantee as owner of
the vacant tract that neither he nor his heirs or assigns would "erect any building" on the vacant tract, in order
to preserve the view of the river from the commercial building on the improved tract. The grantee intended to
use the vacant tract as a nature preserve. The grantee promptly and properly recorded the deed. 

Last year, the businesswoman conveyed the improved tract to a businessman. A month later, the grantee
died, devising all of his property, including the vacant land, to his cousin. 

Six weeks ago, the cousin began construction of a building on the vacant tract. 

The businessman objected and sued to enjoin construction of the building. 

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The businessman, because the commercial building was constructed before the cousin began his
construction project.
B: The businessman, because the cousin is bound by the covenant made by the grantee.
C: The cousin, because an equitable servitude does not survive the death of the promisor.
D: The cousin, because the grantee did not sign the deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The businesswoman and the grantee created a valid equitable servitude. The promise
was in a writing--the deed--that satisfied the statute of frauds. The promise restricting the use of the vacant
land touched and concerned the land, placing a burden on the vacant tract and giving a benefit to the
improved tract. The writing showed an intent that the promise would be binding on the grantee's heirs and
assigns. The grantee recorded the deed. The cousin had constructive notice of the equitable servitude and is
bound by it because nothing has occurred that would terminate the equitable servitude. Thus, Answer B is
correct. Answer A is incorrect because, although it correctly concludes that the businessman will prevail, it
misstates the rationale. It is not relevant whether the commercial building was constructed before or after the
other building. 

Answer C is incorrect. An equitable servitude will not end on the death of the promisor absent a provision
which so provides. 

Answer D is incorrect. The grantee did not sign the deed; however, the grantee accepted the deed and
recorded it. An equitable servitude may be created by a writing that complies with the statute of frauds and
expresses an intention that the servitude exist. The deed to the grantee satisfied the statute of frauds and
showed an intention that the grantee's heirs and assigns be bound. The promise restricting the use of the
vacant land touched and concerned the land, placing a burden on the vacant tract and giving a benefit to the
improved tract. The grantee recorded the deed. The cousin thus had constructive notice of the equitable
servitude and is bound by it because nothing has occurred that would terminate the equitable servitude.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 175

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1462 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Ten years ago, a seller sold land to a buyer, who financed the purchase price with a loan from a bank that was
secured by a mortgage on the land. The buyer purchased a title insurance policy running to both the buyer and
the bank, showing no liens on the property other than the buyer's mortgage to the bank. Eight years ago, the
buyer paid the mortgage in full.  

Seven years ago, the buyer sold the land to an investor by a full covenant and warranty deed without
exceptions.  

Six years ago, the investor gave the land to a donee by a quitclaim deed.  

Last year, the donee discovered an outstanding mortgage on the land that predated all of these conveyances.
As a result of a title examiner's negligence, this mortgage was not disclosed in the title insurance policy issued
to the buyer and the bank.  

Following this discovery, the donee successfully sued the buyer to recover the amount of the outstanding
mortgage.  

If the buyer sues the title insurance company to recover the amount he paid to the donee, is he likely to
prevail? 

A: No, because the buyer conveyed the land to an investor.
B: No, because the title insurance policy lapsed when the buyer paid off the bank's mortgage.
C: Yes, because the buyer is protected by the title insurance policy even though he no longer owns the land.
D: Yes, because the buyer was successfully sued by a donee and not by a bona fide purchaser for value.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Although the lender's policy of title insurance ended when the loan was repaid, an
owner's policy of title insurance continues to protect the owner if the owner (here, the buyer) is ever
successfully sued on a title covenant in a future conveyance. It does not matter that the buyer conveyed the
land to the investor. The donee successfully sued the buyer on the title covenant given in the buyer's full
warranty deed which deed was without exception to the investor. The buyer can now recover on the owner's
policy of title insurance. Thus, Answer C is correct, and Answers A and B are incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect because, although this response correctly concludes that the buyer will prevail against
the title insurance company, it misstates the rationale. It does not matter whether the buyer was sued by a
donee or a bona fide purchaser for value.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 176

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1468 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A woman owned a house on a lot abutting a public street. Six months ago, the city validly revised its zoning
ordinances and placed the woman's lot and the surrounding lots abutting the public street from the north in a
zone limited to residential use; the lots abutting the public street on the south side were zoned for both
residential and light business use. 

The woman asked the city's zoning appeals board to approve her proposal to operate a court-reporting service
from her house. This type of use would be permitted on the south side of the public street and, in fact, one
such business has existed there for several years. 

The board approved the woman's proposal. 

Why? 

A: A variance was granted.
B: The doctrine of amortization applied.
C: The doctrine of change of circumstances applied.
D: The woman's use of her house was a nonconforming use.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A variance permits a waiver from a zoning requirement. A variance will be granted when
an owner convinces a zoning appeals board that without the variance the owner would suffer a hardship
regarding the use of the land. In this case, the board approved the woman's application to operate a
court-reporting service in her house, and thus this jurisdiction allows use variances that permit nonresidential
uses in areas that are otherwise zoned residential. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. The doctrine of amortization is a means used to terminate a nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use is a use that was in existence at the time of the zoning change, and was allowed at that
time, but is not permitted under the new zoning. In this case, at the time of the zoning change the woman was
using her house as a residence, and residential use was permitted under the new zoning. Thus, her use was
not a nonconforming use at the time of the zoning change. 

Answer C is incorrect. The doctrine of change of circumstances is used to terminate an equitable servitude. An
equitable servitude is a private restriction regarding the use of land. Zoning, on the other hand, is public land
use regulation. As stated above, only a variance permits a waiver from a zoning requirement. Thus, the
doctrine of changed circumstances is inapplicable in these circumstances. 

Answer D is incorrect. A nonconforming use is a use that was in existence at the time of the zoning change,
and was allowed at that time, but is no longer permitted under the new zoning. At the time of the zoning
change in this case, the woman was using her house as a residence, and residential use is still permitted after
the zoning change. Thus, her use is not a nonconforming use. As explained above, a variance permits a
waiver from a zoning requirement after the zoning requirement has been established.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 177

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1476 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A woman died testate. In her will, she devised a farm she owned to her husband for life, remainder to her
niece. Her will did not specify the duties of the husband and the niece with regard to maintenance and
expenses related to the farm. The husband took sole possession of the farm, did not farm the land, and did not
rent the land to a third person, although the fair rental value was substantial.  

For two years in a row after the woman died, the county assessor sent the tax bills to the niece, but the niece
did not pay the bills, because she and the husband could not agree on who should pay them. Finally, the niece
paid the taxes to avoid a tax foreclosure sale.  

The niece then sued the husband for reimbursement for the two years' worth of property taxes.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Is the niece likely to prevail? 

A: No, because remaindermen are solely responsible for the payment of property taxes.
B: No, because the county assessor sent the bills to the niece.
C: No, because the woman's will was silent on responsibility for payment of property taxes.
D: Yes, because the niece paid an obligation that was the sole responsibility of the husband.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. In the absence of a contrary direction in the document creating the life estate--in this
case, the will--it is the duty of the life tenant to pay all general property taxes that accrue during the
continuance of the life estate. The only limitation on this duty is that the life tenant has no duty to expend more
than the income that can be generated from the land. Because the fair rental value of the farmland was
substantial, this limitation does not apply. If the remainderman does pay any property taxes due during the life
tenancy, he or she is entitled to a judgment against the life tenant for reimbursement. Thus, Answer D is
correct and Answer A is incorrect. Answer B is incorrect because it is not relevant to whom the county
assessor sent the tax bills. Answer C is incorrect because the silence in her will as to the responsibility to pay
the property taxes triggers the default rule--it is the duty of the life tenant to pay all general property taxes that
accrue during the continuance of the life estate.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 178

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1487 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

Under the terms of his duly probated will, a testator devised his house to his "grandchildren in fee simple" and
the residue of his estate to his brother. The testator had had two children, a son and a daughter, but only the
daughter survived the testator. At the time of the testator's death, the daughter was 30 years old and had two
minor children (grandchildren of the testator) who also survived the testator.  

A third grandchild of the testator, who was the child of the testator's predeceased son, had been alive when
the testator executed the will, but had predeceased the testator. Under the applicable intestate succession
laws, the deceased grandchild's sole heir was his mother.  

A statute of the jurisdiction provides as follows: "If a devisee, including a devisee of a class gift, who is a
grandparent or a lineal descendant of a grandparent of the testator is dead at the time of execution of the will
or fails to survive the testator, the issue of such deceased devisee shall take the deceased's share under the
will, unless the will expressly provides that this statute shall not apply. For this purpose, words of survivorship,
such as 'if he survives me,' are a sufficient expression that the statute shall not apply."  

Who now owns the house? 

A: The testator's brother.
B: The testator's two surviving grandchildren.
C: The testator's two surviving grandchildren and all other grandchildren who are born to the testator's
daughter.
D: The testator's two surviving grandchildren and the deceased grandchild's mother.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The testator devised his house, which he owned at his death, to his grandchildren as a
class gift. The testator was survived by two grandchildren who became the sole surviving members of the
class. The deceased grandchild's interest lapsed because the grandchild, though alive at the time of the will
execution, died before the testator. The deceased grandchild would qualify under the anti-lapse statute, but he
was not survived by any issue who would be substituted for him under the statute. Thus, Answer B is correct
and Answer D is incorrect. Answer A is incorrect because the house will pass to the two surviving
grandchildren as surviving members of the class and will not fall into the residue of the estate. Answer C is
incorrect because, when the class closed, there were two surviving members of the class, who will take.
Additional children of the testator's daughter will not take.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 179

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1489 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Last year, a buyer and a seller entered into a valid contract for the sale of a parcel of real property. The
contract contained no contingencies. The seller was killed in a car accident before the parcel was conveyed,
but the closing eventually took place with the conveyance by a deed from the personal representative of the
seller's estate.  

The personal representative of the seller's estate wants to distribute the proceeds of the real property sale.
The seller's will was executed many years ago and was duly admitted to probate. Paragraph 5 of his will
leaves all of the seller's real property to his son, and Paragraph 6 leaves the residue of the estate to the
seller's daughter. No other provisions of the will are pertinent to the question regarding to whom the proceeds
of the sale should be distributed.  

What will determine who receives the proceeds? 

A: Whether Paragraph 5 refers specifically to the parcel of real property that was sold or simply to "all of my
real property."
B: Whether the closing date originally specified in the contract was a date before or after the seller's death.
C: Whether the jurisdiction has adopted the doctrine of equitable conversion.
D: Whether the sale was completed in accordance with a court order.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Many events may occur during the executory time period, which is the time between the
contract signing and the closing. If the seller dies during this time period leaving a will that devises the real
estate to one person and the personalty to another, and if the contract contained no contingencies or all
contingencies had been satisfied at the time of the death, the doctrine of equitable conversion applies. The
determination of who will receive the proceeds thus depends on who had equitable title. In this case, the son
had only a legal interest in the land at the time of the seller's death, and the daughter had the equitable interest
in the proceeds and should receive them. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. It does not matter whether Paragraph 5 refers specifically to the parcel sold or simply to
"all of my real property." The seller died during the executory time period, which is the time between the
contract signing and the closing. The contract contained no contingencies, and thus the doctrine of equitable
conversion applied as of the date of contract signing and determines who is entitled to the proceeds. 

Answer B is incorrect because it does not matter whether the closing date was scheduled before or after the
seller's death, and answer D is incorrect because it does not matter whether the sale was completed in
accordance with a court order or not. If the seller had died after the closing, the proceeds would have passed
to the daughter, who received the residue of the estate. As it was, the seller died during the executory time
period between the contract signing and the closing. As explained above, the contract contained no
contingencies, and thus the doctrine of equitable conversion applied as of the date of contract signing and
determines who is entitled to the proceeds.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 180

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1496 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man conveyed his house to his wife for life, remainder to his only child, a son by a previous marriage.
Thereafter, the man died, devising his entire estate to his son.  

The wife later removed a light fixture in the dining room of the house and replaced it with a chandelier that was
one of her family heirlooms. She then informed her nephew and her late husband's son that after her death,
the chandelier should be removed from the dining room and replaced with the former light fixture, which she
had stored in the basement. 

The wife died and under her will bequeathed her entire estate to her nephew. She also named the nephew as
the personal representative of her estate. After the nephew, in his capacity as personal representative,
removed the chandelier and replaced it with the original light fixture shortly after the wife's death, the son sued
to have the chandelier reinstalled.  

Who will likely prevail? 

A: The nephew, because he had the right to remove the chandelier within a reasonable time after the wife's
death.
B: The nephew, because of the doctrine of accession.
C: The son, because the chandelier could not be legally removed after the death of the wife.
D: The son, because a personal representative can remove only trade fixtures from real property.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. As the life tenant, the wife had a right to annex a chattel, in this case the chandelier. It
was clear that the wife did not intend to make the chandelier a permanent annexation, as evidenced by her
discussions with her nephew and the man's son. The wife's personal representative, the nephew, had the right
to remove the chandelier within a reasonable time after the termination of the wife's life estate. Thus, Answer A
is correct and Answer C is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. This response correctly concludes that the nephew, as the personal representative, had
the right to remove the chandelier, but it misstates the rationale. The doctrine of accession applies only in
situations in which one person annexes chattels to real property owned by another under such circumstances
that the law will not permit the chattels' removal. In this case, the wife, the life tenant, annexed the chandelier
to her own real property, which she held in a life estate. The nephew, as the personal representative, had the
right to remove the chandelier within a reasonable period of time after the wife's death. 

Answer D is incorrect. A trade fixture is a fixture installed by a tenant in a trade or business. At the end of the
lease term, the tenant typically may remove any trade fixtures that have been installed, provided that
substantial damage will not occur as a result of the removal. In this case, the wife was a life tenant in a house
who annexed a chattel--the chandelier--in the dining room of that house. It is clear that the wife did not intend
to make the annexation permanent, as evidenced by her discussions with her nephew and the son. The
nephew, as the personal representative, had the right to remove the chandelier within a reasonable time after
the termination of the wife's life estate.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 181

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1502 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man obtained a bank loan secured by a mortgage on an office building that he owned. After several years,
the man conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the
woman was not recorded. The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage
payments for several years.  

Subsequently, the woman stopped making payments on the mortgage loan, and the bank eventually
commenced foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the
foreclosure sale, a third party purchased the building for less than the outstanding balance on the mortgage
loan. The bank then sought to collect the deficiency from the woman.  

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman? 

A: No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.
B: No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.
C: Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.
D: Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage debt, which means that the
debt was to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only
party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes
the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a
release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable. Recording the deed would give the bank constructive
notice of the transfer but would have no effect on the collection of the deficiency.  

B is correct. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage but did not assume the
mortgage debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.  

C is incorrect. The woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage. Her title to the building allowed her
to take possession of the building, but her possession has no effect on the payment of any deficiency
judgment. Taking title to the building subject to the mortgage means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the
building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case,
the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would
be secondarily liable.  

D is incorrect. Because the woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage debt, she was a necessary
party to the foreclosure proceeding. However, the fact that she took title to the building subject to the mortgage
means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 182

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1502 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man obtained a bank loan secured by a mortgage on an office building that he owned. After several years,
the man conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the
woman was not recorded. The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage
payments for several years.  

Subsequently, the woman stopped making payments on the mortgage loan, and the bank eventually
commenced foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the
foreclosure sale, a third party purchased the building for less than the outstanding balance on the mortgage
loan. The bank then sought to collect the deficiency from the woman.  

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman? 

A: No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.
B: No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.
C: Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.
D: Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage debt, which means that the
debt was to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only
party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes
the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a
release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable. Recording the deed would give the bank constructive
notice of the transfer but would have no effect on the collection of the deficiency.  

B is correct. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage but did not assume the
mortgage debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.  

C is incorrect. The woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage. Her title to the building allowed her
to take possession of the building, but her possession has no effect on the payment of any deficiency
judgment. Taking title to the building subject to the mortgage means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the
building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case,
the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would
be secondarily liable.  

D is incorrect. Because the woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage debt, she was a necessary
party to the foreclosure proceeding. However, the fact that she took title to the building subject to the mortgage
means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 183

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1502 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man obtained a bank loan secured by a mortgage on an office building that he owned. After several years,
the man conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the
woman was not recorded. The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage
payments for several years.  

Subsequently, the woman stopped making payments on the mortgage loan, and the bank eventually
commenced foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the
foreclosure sale, a third party purchased the building for less than the outstanding balance on the mortgage
loan. The bank then sought to collect the deficiency from the woman.  

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman? 

A: No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.
B: No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.
C: Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.
D: Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage debt, which means that the
debt was to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only
party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes
the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a
release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable. Recording the deed would give the bank constructive
notice of the transfer but would have no effect on the collection of the deficiency.  

B is correct. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage but did not assume the
mortgage debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.  

C is incorrect. The woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage. Her title to the building allowed her
to take possession of the building, but her possession has no effect on the payment of any deficiency
judgment. Taking title to the building subject to the mortgage means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the
building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case,
the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would
be secondarily liable.  

D is incorrect. Because the woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage debt, she was a necessary
party to the foreclosure proceeding. However, the fact that she took title to the building subject to the mortgage
means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 184

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1502 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man obtained a bank loan secured by a mortgage on an office building that he owned. After several years,
the man conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the
woman was not recorded. The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage
payments for several years.  

Subsequently, the woman stopped making payments on the mortgage loan, and the bank eventually
commenced foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the
foreclosure sale, a third party purchased the building for less than the outstanding balance on the mortgage
loan. The bank then sought to collect the deficiency from the woman.  

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman? 

A: No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.
B: No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.
C: Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.
D: Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage debt, which means that the
debt was to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only
party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes
the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a
release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable. Recording the deed would give the bank constructive
notice of the transfer but would have no effect on the collection of the deficiency.  

B is correct. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage but did not assume the
mortgage debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.  

C is incorrect. The woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage. Her title to the building allowed her
to take possession of the building, but her possession has no effect on the payment of any deficiency
judgment. Taking title to the building subject to the mortgage means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the
building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case,
the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would
be secondarily liable.  

D is incorrect. Because the woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage debt, she was a necessary
party to the foreclosure proceeding. However, the fact that she took title to the building subject to the mortgage
means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 185

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1502 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A man obtained a bank loan secured by a mortgage on an office building that he owned. After several years,
the man conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the
woman was not recorded. The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage
payments for several years.  

Subsequently, the woman stopped making payments on the mortgage loan, and the bank eventually
commenced foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the
foreclosure sale, a third party purchased the building for less than the outstanding balance on the mortgage
loan. The bank then sought to collect the deficiency from the woman.  

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman? 

A: No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.
B: No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.
C: Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.
D: Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage debt, which means that the
debt was to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only
party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes
the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a
release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable. Recording the deed would give the bank constructive
notice of the transfer but would have no effect on the collection of the deficiency.  

B is correct. The woman took title to the office building subject to the mortgage but did not assume the
mortgage debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.  

C is incorrect. The woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage. Her title to the building allowed her
to take possession of the building, but her possession has no effect on the payment of any deficiency
judgment. Taking title to the building subject to the mortgage means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the
building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case,
the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would
be secondarily liable.  

D is incorrect. Because the woman took title to the building subject to the mortgage debt, she was a necessary
party to the foreclosure proceeding. However, the fact that she took title to the building subject to the mortgage
means that the debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as
transferor, is the only party liable for any deficiency. This situation can be contrasted with one in which a buyer
expressly assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and
the seller, absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 186

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1509 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000
debt. A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing,
be a lien on the real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment
is rendered."  

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed
the remaining $180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after
the closing, the deed to the man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.  

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated judicial foreclosure
proceedings. After receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its
judgment lien declared to be the first lien on the land.  

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted? 

A: No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.
B: No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.
C: Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced
were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of
the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed
judgment lien. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card
company's judgment lien.  

B is incorrect. The relative amounts of the down payment and the credit card debt are irrelevant. The bank's
mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced were used to purchase
the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed judgment lien.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the judgment lien was properly filed and thus provided the bank with constructive
notice of the lien. The bank's mortgage, however, is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the
bank advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as
the purchase of the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously
filed judgment lien.  

D is incorrect. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank
advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage may be granted by a seller, by a third
party, or both. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously filed judgment lien. Therefore, the
bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card company's judgment lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 187

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1509 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000
debt. A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing,
be a lien on the real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment
is rendered."  

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed
the remaining $180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after
the closing, the deed to the man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.  

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated judicial foreclosure
proceedings. After receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its
judgment lien declared to be the first lien on the land.  

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted? 

A: No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.
B: No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.
C: Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced
were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of
the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed
judgment lien. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card
company's judgment lien.  

B is incorrect. The relative amounts of the down payment and the credit card debt are irrelevant. The bank's
mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced were used to purchase
the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed judgment lien.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the judgment lien was properly filed and thus provided the bank with constructive
notice of the lien. The bank's mortgage, however, is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the
bank advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as
the purchase of the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously
filed judgment lien.  

D is incorrect. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank
advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage may be granted by a seller, by a third
party, or both. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously filed judgment lien. Therefore, the
bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card company's judgment lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 188

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1509 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000
debt. A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing,
be a lien on the real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment
is rendered."  

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed
the remaining $180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after
the closing, the deed to the man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.  

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated judicial foreclosure
proceedings. After receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its
judgment lien declared to be the first lien on the land.  

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted? 

A: No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.
B: No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.
C: Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced
were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of
the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed
judgment lien. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card
company's judgment lien.  

B is incorrect. The relative amounts of the down payment and the credit card debt are irrelevant. The bank's
mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced were used to purchase
the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed judgment lien.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the judgment lien was properly filed and thus provided the bank with constructive
notice of the lien. The bank's mortgage, however, is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the
bank advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as
the purchase of the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously
filed judgment lien.  

D is incorrect. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank
advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage may be granted by a seller, by a third
party, or both. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously filed judgment lien. Therefore, the
bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card company's judgment lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 189

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1509 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000
debt. A statute in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing,
be a lien on the real property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment
is rendered."  

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed
the remaining $180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after
the closing, the deed to the man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.  

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated judicial foreclosure
proceedings. After receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its
judgment lien declared to be the first lien on the land.  

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted? 

A: No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.
B: No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.
C: Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced
were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of
the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed
judgment lien. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card
company's judgment lien.  

B is incorrect. The relative amounts of the down payment and the credit card debt are irrelevant. The bank's
mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank advanced were used to purchase
the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed judgment lien.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the judgment lien was properly filed and thus provided the bank with constructive
notice of the lien. The bank's mortgage, however, is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the
bank advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as
the purchase of the real property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously
filed judgment lien.  

D is incorrect. The bank's mortgage is a purchase-money mortgage, meaning that the funds the bank
advanced were used to purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage may be granted by a seller, by a third
party, or both. A purchase-money mortgage executed at the same time as the purchase of the real property
encumbered takes precedence over any other claim, including a previously filed judgment lien. Therefore, the
bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card company's judgment lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 190

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1516 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A husband and wife acquired land as common law joint tenants with right of survivorship. One year later,
without his wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband
subsequently died.  

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land? 

A: No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other
joint tenant.
B: No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.
D: Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. As a general rule, a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant. However, a joint tenant's interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on
the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole
owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

B is incorrect. The doctrine of ademption applies only when an individual dies testate and attempts to devise
land that the testator no longer owns. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable
during his or her lifetime without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will.
In this case, on the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she
became the sole owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of after-acquired title applies when an individual attempts to convey title (usually by
warranty deed) at a time when the individual does not have title to the land but later acquires title to the land.
Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death of the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the
land as the surviving joint tenant.  

D is correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime
without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death
of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of
the land as the surviving joint tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 191

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1516 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A husband and wife acquired land as common law joint tenants with right of survivorship. One year later,
without his wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband
subsequently died.  

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land? 

A: No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other
joint tenant.
B: No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.
D: Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. As a general rule, a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant. However, a joint tenant's interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on
the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole
owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

B is incorrect. The doctrine of ademption applies only when an individual dies testate and attempts to devise
land that the testator no longer owns. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable
during his or her lifetime without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will.
In this case, on the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she
became the sole owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of after-acquired title applies when an individual attempts to convey title (usually by
warranty deed) at a time when the individual does not have title to the land but later acquires title to the land.
Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death of the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the
land as the surviving joint tenant.  

D is correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime
without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death
of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of
the land as the surviving joint tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 192

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1516 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A husband and wife acquired land as common law joint tenants with right of survivorship. One year later,
without his wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband
subsequently died.  

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land? 

A: No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other
joint tenant.
B: No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.
D: Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. As a general rule, a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant. However, a joint tenant's interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on
the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole
owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

B is incorrect. The doctrine of ademption applies only when an individual dies testate and attempts to devise
land that the testator no longer owns. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable
during his or her lifetime without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will.
In this case, on the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she
became the sole owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of after-acquired title applies when an individual attempts to convey title (usually by
warranty deed) at a time when the individual does not have title to the land but later acquires title to the land.
Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death of the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the
land as the surviving joint tenant.  

D is correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime
without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death
of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of
the land as the surviving joint tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 193

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1516 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A husband and wife acquired land as common law joint tenants with right of survivorship. One year later,
without his wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband
subsequently died.  

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land? 

A: No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other
joint tenant.
B: No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.
D: Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. As a general rule, a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant. However, a joint tenant's interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on
the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole
owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

B is incorrect. The doctrine of ademption applies only when an individual dies testate and attempts to devise
land that the testator no longer owns. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable
during his or her lifetime without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will.
In this case, on the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she
became the sole owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of after-acquired title applies when an individual attempts to convey title (usually by
warranty deed) at a time when the individual does not have title to the land but later acquires title to the land.
Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death of the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the
land as the surviving joint tenant.  

D is correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime
without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death
of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of
the land as the surviving joint tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 194

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1516 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A husband and wife acquired land as common law joint tenants with right of survivorship. One year later,
without his wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband
subsequently died.  

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land? 

A: No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other
joint tenant.
B: No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.
D: Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. As a general rule, a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant. However, a joint tenant's interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on
the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole
owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

B is incorrect. The doctrine of ademption applies only when an individual dies testate and attempts to devise
land that the testator no longer owns. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable
during his or her lifetime without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will.
In this case, on the death of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she
became the sole owner of the land as the surviving joint tenant.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of after-acquired title applies when an individual attempts to convey title (usually by
warranty deed) at a time when the individual does not have title to the land but later acquires title to the land.
Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without the
consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death of the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the
land as the surviving joint tenant.  

D is correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime
without the consent of the other joint tenant, that interest cannot be devised in a will. In this case, on the death
of the husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of
the land as the surviving joint tenant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 195

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1519 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a 10-year term. Two years after the term began, the tenant
subleased the building to a sublessee for a 5-year term. Under the terms of the sublease, the sublessee
agreed to make monthly rent payments to the tenant.  

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those
payments to the landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the
sublessee for the unpaid rent.  

There is no applicable statute.  

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely
reason? 

A: A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.
B: The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.
C: The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.
D: The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the
landlord.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of
the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the
tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee
and the landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent
to the landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent and also is not a surety for
the tenant.  

B is incorrect. A novation occurs when a tenant seeks to avoid future liability for rent after an assignment and
the landlord agrees to release the tenant from such liability. An assignment occurs when the tenant transfers
the entire period of time remaining on the lease agreement. Here, the tenant only transferred a portion of the
remaining time on the lease agreement, and the tenant did not seek a release or novation from the landlord.  

C is correct. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the
leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the
landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.  

D is incorrect. The sublessee had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a
right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the
tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord.
There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the landlord, because the sublessee made no
promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the landlord. Lacking privity, a sublessee is not
liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be required under an equitable servitude theory, a
finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use such a theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 196

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1519 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a 10-year term. Two years after the term began, the tenant
subleased the building to a sublessee for a 5-year term. Under the terms of the sublease, the sublessee
agreed to make monthly rent payments to the tenant.  

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those
payments to the landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the
sublessee for the unpaid rent.  

There is no applicable statute.  

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely
reason? 

A: A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.
B: The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.
C: The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.
D: The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the
landlord.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of
the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the
tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee
and the landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent
to the landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent and also is not a surety for
the tenant.  

B is incorrect. A novation occurs when a tenant seeks to avoid future liability for rent after an assignment and
the landlord agrees to release the tenant from such liability. An assignment occurs when the tenant transfers
the entire period of time remaining on the lease agreement. Here, the tenant only transferred a portion of the
remaining time on the lease agreement, and the tenant did not seek a release or novation from the landlord.  

C is correct. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the
leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the
landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.  

D is incorrect. The sublessee had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a
right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the
tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord.
There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the landlord, because the sublessee made no
promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the landlord. Lacking privity, a sublessee is not
liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be required under an equitable servitude theory, a
finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use such a theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 197

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1519 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a 10-year term. Two years after the term began, the tenant
subleased the building to a sublessee for a 5-year term. Under the terms of the sublease, the sublessee
agreed to make monthly rent payments to the tenant.  

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those
payments to the landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the
sublessee for the unpaid rent.  

There is no applicable statute.  

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely
reason? 

A: A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.
B: The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.
C: The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.
D: The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the
landlord.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of
the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the
tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee
and the landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent
to the landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent and also is not a surety for
the tenant.  

B is incorrect. A novation occurs when a tenant seeks to avoid future liability for rent after an assignment and
the landlord agrees to release the tenant from such liability. An assignment occurs when the tenant transfers
the entire period of time remaining on the lease agreement. Here, the tenant only transferred a portion of the
remaining time on the lease agreement, and the tenant did not seek a release or novation from the landlord.  

C is correct. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the
leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the
landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.  

D is incorrect. The sublessee had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a
right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the
tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord.
There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the landlord, because the sublessee made no
promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the landlord. Lacking privity, a sublessee is not
liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be required under an equitable servitude theory, a
finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use such a theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 198

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1519 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a 10-year term. Two years after the term began, the tenant
subleased the building to a sublessee for a 5-year term. Under the terms of the sublease, the sublessee
agreed to make monthly rent payments to the tenant.  

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those
payments to the landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the
sublessee for the unpaid rent.  

There is no applicable statute.  

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely
reason? 

A: A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.
B: The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.
C: The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.
D: The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the
landlord.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of
the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the
tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee
and the landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent
to the landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent and also is not a surety for
the tenant.  

B is incorrect. A novation occurs when a tenant seeks to avoid future liability for rent after an assignment and
the landlord agrees to release the tenant from such liability. An assignment occurs when the tenant transfers
the entire period of time remaining on the lease agreement. Here, the tenant only transferred a portion of the
remaining time on the lease agreement, and the tenant did not seek a release or novation from the landlord.  

C is correct. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the
leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the
landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.  

D is incorrect. The sublessee had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a
right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the
tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord.
There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the landlord, because the sublessee made no
promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the landlord. Lacking privity, a sublessee is not
liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be required under an equitable servitude theory, a
finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use such a theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 199

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1519 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a 10-year term. Two years after the term began, the tenant
subleased the building to a sublessee for a 5-year term. Under the terms of the sublease, the sublessee
agreed to make monthly rent payments to the tenant.  

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those
payments to the landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the
sublessee for the unpaid rent.  

There is no applicable statute.  

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely
reason? 

A: A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.
B: The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.
C: The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.
D: The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the
landlord.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of
the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the
tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee
and the landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent
to the landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent and also is not a surety for
the tenant.  

B is incorrect. A novation occurs when a tenant seeks to avoid future liability for rent after an assignment and
the landlord agrees to release the tenant from such liability. An assignment occurs when the tenant transfers
the entire period of time remaining on the lease agreement. Here, the tenant only transferred a portion of the
remaining time on the lease agreement, and the tenant did not seek a release or novation from the landlord.  

C is correct. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the
leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord, because the sublessee made no promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the
landlord. Lacking privity, the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.  

D is incorrect. The sublessee had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord. In a sublease, the tenant transfers a
right of possession for a time shorter than the balance of the leasehold. Therefore, the sublessee and the
tenant are in privity of estate with each other, but only the tenant remains in privity of estate with the landlord.
There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the landlord, because the sublessee made no
promise, either to the landlord or to the tenant, to pay rent to the landlord. Lacking privity, a sublessee is not
liable to the landlord for the rent. Although privity may not be required under an equitable servitude theory, a
finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use such a theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 200

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1523 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The
language of the deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is
unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I
intend you and your wife to have my house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I
intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective
at my death."  

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge.
Subsequently, the son and the wife separated, and the wife, without telling anyone, conveyed her interest in
the house to a friend who immediately reconveyed it to the wife.  

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed
to the house. The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a
declaration that the woman was still the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's
deed and the subsequent deeds.  

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation? 

A: The deed was not delivered.
B: The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.
C: The woman expressly reserved a life estate.
D: The woman received no consideration for her deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the
grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to
have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

B is incorrect. The wife's conduct may have been inappropriate, but it is not relevant to whether the woman
properly delivered the deed to the son and the wife. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and
delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be
effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not
in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in
possession of the house and intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered,
so she owns the house in fee simple.  

C is incorrect. The woman did not expressly reserve a life estate, and she remained in possession of the
house. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a
transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

D is incorrect. A grantor may convey property for no consideration. To be valid, however, a deed must be
properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not
intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is
valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do.
The woman remained in possession of the house, and the deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in
fee simple.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 201

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1523 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The
language of the deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is
unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I
intend you and your wife to have my house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I
intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective
at my death."  

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge.
Subsequently, the son and the wife separated, and the wife, without telling anyone, conveyed her interest in
the house to a friend who immediately reconveyed it to the wife.  

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed
to the house. The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a
declaration that the woman was still the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's
deed and the subsequent deeds.  

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation? 

A: The deed was not delivered.
B: The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.
C: The woman expressly reserved a life estate.
D: The woman received no consideration for her deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the
grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to
have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

B is incorrect. The wife's conduct may have been inappropriate, but it is not relevant to whether the woman
properly delivered the deed to the son and the wife. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and
delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be
effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not
in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in
possession of the house and intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered,
so she owns the house in fee simple.  

C is incorrect. The woman did not expressly reserve a life estate, and she remained in possession of the
house. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a
transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

D is incorrect. A grantor may convey property for no consideration. To be valid, however, a deed must be
properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not
intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is
valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do.
The woman remained in possession of the house, and the deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in
fee simple.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 202

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1523 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The
language of the deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is
unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I
intend you and your wife to have my house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I
intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective
at my death."  

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge.
Subsequently, the son and the wife separated, and the wife, without telling anyone, conveyed her interest in
the house to a friend who immediately reconveyed it to the wife.  

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed
to the house. The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a
declaration that the woman was still the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's
deed and the subsequent deeds.  

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation? 

A: The deed was not delivered.
B: The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.
C: The woman expressly reserved a life estate.
D: The woman received no consideration for her deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the
grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to
have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

B is incorrect. The wife's conduct may have been inappropriate, but it is not relevant to whether the woman
properly delivered the deed to the son and the wife. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and
delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be
effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not
in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in
possession of the house and intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered,
so she owns the house in fee simple.  

C is incorrect. The woman did not expressly reserve a life estate, and she remained in possession of the
house. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a
transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

D is incorrect. A grantor may convey property for no consideration. To be valid, however, a deed must be
properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not
intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is
valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do.
The woman remained in possession of the house, and the deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in
fee simple.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 203

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1523 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The
language of the deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is
unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I
intend you and your wife to have my house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I
intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective
at my death."  

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge.
Subsequently, the son and the wife separated, and the wife, without telling anyone, conveyed her interest in
the house to a friend who immediately reconveyed it to the wife.  

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed
to the house. The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a
declaration that the woman was still the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's
deed and the subsequent deeds.  

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation? 

A: The deed was not delivered.
B: The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.
C: The woman expressly reserved a life estate.
D: The woman received no consideration for her deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the
grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to
have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

B is incorrect. The wife's conduct may have been inappropriate, but it is not relevant to whether the woman
properly delivered the deed to the son and the wife. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and
delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be
effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not
in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in
possession of the house and intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered,
so she owns the house in fee simple.  

C is incorrect. The woman did not expressly reserve a life estate, and she remained in possession of the
house. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a
transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

D is incorrect. A grantor may convey property for no consideration. To be valid, however, a deed must be
properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not
intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is
valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do.
The woman remained in possession of the house, and the deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in
fee simple.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 204

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1523 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The
language of the deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is
unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I
intend you and your wife to have my house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I
intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective
at my death."  

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge.
Subsequently, the son and the wife separated, and the wife, without telling anyone, conveyed her interest in
the house to a friend who immediately reconveyed it to the wife.  

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed
to the house. The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a
declaration that the woman was still the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's
deed and the subsequent deeds.  

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation? 

A: The deed was not delivered.
B: The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.
C: The woman expressly reserved a life estate.
D: The woman received no consideration for her deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the
grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to
have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

B is incorrect. The wife's conduct may have been inappropriate, but it is not relevant to whether the woman
properly delivered the deed to the son and the wife. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and
delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be
effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not
in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in
possession of the house and intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered,
so she owns the house in fee simple.  

C is incorrect. The woman did not expressly reserve a life estate, and she remained in possession of the
house. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a
transfer be effective at the grantor's death is valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly
reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and
intended to retain title to the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee
simple.  

D is incorrect. A grantor may convey property for no consideration. To be valid, however, a deed must be
properly executed and delivered. Delivery is a question of the grantor's intent. In this case, the woman did not
intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer be effective at the grantor's death is
valid in a will but not in a deed unless the deed expressly reserves a life estate, which this deed did not do.
The woman remained in possession of the house, and the deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in
fee simple.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 205

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1527 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A woman borrowed $100,000 from a bank and executed a promissory note to the bank in that amount. As
security for repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely
owned by him. The brother did not sign the promissory note.  

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure
proceedings on the brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.  

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land? 

A: No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.
B: No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.
C: Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.
D: Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

B is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

C is correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even
though the woman also has personal liability on the debt.  

D is incorrect. The bank is the mortgagee under the mortgage and not a surety. The bank may foreclose on
the mortgage, however, because the mortgage is valid and the debt is in default. A mortgage is security for the
performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by some other person.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 206

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1527 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A woman borrowed $100,000 from a bank and executed a promissory note to the bank in that amount. As
security for repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely
owned by him. The brother did not sign the promissory note.  

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure
proceedings on the brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.  

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land? 

A: No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.
B: No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.
C: Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.
D: Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

B is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

C is correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even
though the woman also has personal liability on the debt.  

D is incorrect. The bank is the mortgagee under the mortgage and not a surety. The bank may foreclose on
the mortgage, however, because the mortgage is valid and the debt is in default. A mortgage is security for the
performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by some other person.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 207

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1527 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A woman borrowed $100,000 from a bank and executed a promissory note to the bank in that amount. As
security for repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely
owned by him. The brother did not sign the promissory note.  

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure
proceedings on the brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.  

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land? 

A: No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.
B: No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.
C: Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.
D: Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

B is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

C is correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even
though the woman also has personal liability on the debt.  

D is incorrect. The bank is the mortgagee under the mortgage and not a surety. The bank may foreclose on
the mortgage, however, because the mortgage is valid and the debt is in default. A mortgage is security for the
performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by some other person.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 208

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1527 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A woman borrowed $100,000 from a bank and executed a promissory note to the bank in that amount. As
security for repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely
owned by him. The brother did not sign the promissory note.  

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure
proceedings on the brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.  

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land? 

A: No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.
B: No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.
C: Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.
D: Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

B is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

C is correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even
though the woman also has personal liability on the debt.  

D is incorrect. The bank is the mortgagee under the mortgage and not a surety. The bank may foreclose on
the mortgage, however, because the mortgage is valid and the debt is in default. A mortgage is security for the
performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by some other person.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 209

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1527 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A woman borrowed $100,000 from a bank and executed a promissory note to the bank in that amount. As
security for repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely
owned by him. The brother did not sign the promissory note.  

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure
proceedings on the brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.  

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land? 

A: No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.
B: No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.
C: Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.
D: Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

B is incorrect. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. Therefore, the mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is
valid, and the bank may foreclose on it.  

C is correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor
or by some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even
though the woman also has personal liability on the debt.  

D is incorrect. The bank is the mortgagee under the mortgage and not a surety. The bank may foreclose on
the mortgage, however, because the mortgage is valid and the debt is in default. A mortgage is security for the
performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by some other person.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 210

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1533 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.  

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions.
The friend paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title
search. The friend never took possession of the land.  

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.  

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused,
because the value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.  

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.  

Is the friend likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.
B: No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
D: Yes, because the deed was recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A buyer may want to search the title before purchasing land to determine if title is as called for in
the contract, but such a search is not required. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as
after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered,
title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title), however, provides that in such a case title
automatically passes to the grantee when the title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

C is correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even
if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the
grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In
this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.  

D is incorrect. Recording has no effect on title in this case. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes
referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed
is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor
asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty
deed with no exceptions. It is irrelevant to the doctrine of estoppel by deed whether the deed was recorded or
not.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 211

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1533 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.  

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions.
The friend paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title
search. The friend never took possession of the land.  

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.  

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused,
because the value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.  

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.  

Is the friend likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.
B: No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
D: Yes, because the deed was recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A buyer may want to search the title before purchasing land to determine if title is as called for in
the contract, but such a search is not required. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as
after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered,
title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title), however, provides that in such a case title
automatically passes to the grantee when the title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

C is correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even
if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the
grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In
this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.  

D is incorrect. Recording has no effect on title in this case. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes
referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed
is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor
asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty
deed with no exceptions. It is irrelevant to the doctrine of estoppel by deed whether the deed was recorded or
not.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 212

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1533 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.  

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions.
The friend paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title
search. The friend never took possession of the land.  

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.  

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused,
because the value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.  

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.  

Is the friend likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.
B: No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
D: Yes, because the deed was recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A buyer may want to search the title before purchasing land to determine if title is as called for in
the contract, but such a search is not required. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as
after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered,
title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title), however, provides that in such a case title
automatically passes to the grantee when the title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

C is correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even
if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the
grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In
this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.  

D is incorrect. Recording has no effect on title in this case. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes
referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed
is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor
asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty
deed with no exceptions. It is irrelevant to the doctrine of estoppel by deed whether the deed was recorded or
not.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 213

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1533 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.  

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions.
The friend paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title
search. The friend never took possession of the land.  

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.  

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused,
because the value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.  

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.  

Is the friend likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.
B: No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
D: Yes, because the deed was recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A buyer may want to search the title before purchasing land to determine if title is as called for in
the contract, but such a search is not required. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as
after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered,
title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title), however, provides that in such a case title
automatically passes to the grantee when the title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

C is correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even
if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the
grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In
this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.  

D is incorrect. Recording has no effect on title in this case. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes
referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed
is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor
asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty
deed with no exceptions. It is irrelevant to the doctrine of estoppel by deed whether the deed was recorded or
not.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 214

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1533 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.  

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions.
The friend paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title
search. The friend never took possession of the land.  

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.  

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused,
because the value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.  

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.  

Is the friend likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.
B: No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.
C: Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
D: Yes, because the deed was recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A buyer may want to search the title before purchasing land to determine if title is as called for in
the contract, but such a search is not required. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as
after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered,
title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance. The doctrine of
estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title), however, provides that in such a case title
automatically passes to the grantee when the title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality
of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no
exceptions.  

C is correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even
if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the
grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In
this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.  

D is incorrect. Recording has no effect on title in this case. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes
referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed
is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when title is so acquired, provided that the grantor
asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son conveyed to the friend by a warranty
deed with no exceptions. It is irrelevant to the doctrine of estoppel by deed whether the deed was recorded or
not.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 215

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1543 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located
in another state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called
the woman and asked to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The
man agreed, and the woman conveyed the house to the man by a warranty deed.  

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live
next door. After the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The
man sued the woman for breach of contract.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

How should the court rule? 

A: For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.
B: For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."
C: For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.
D: For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The man's proposed change of use was not known to the woman, nor was it stated in the
contract. His planned change to the use of the house is irrelevant to the outcome of the case. The woman
should prevail, but it is because she sold the house "as is."  

B is correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific.
In this case, the contract specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is." The woman made no
misrepresentations regarding the condition of the house. There are no statutes that might require an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never
visited or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a
warranty of habitability.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of caveat emptor states that the buyer accepts the property in its current condition.
Therefore, the caveat emptor doctrine would not protect the man as the buyer. In fact, a seller may disclaim
any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract
specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.  

D is incorrect. A warranty deed provides remedies for breaches of title matters. Termite damage affects the
physical quality of the property, not title to the property. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose physical
defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract specifically noted that the
house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 216

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1543 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located
in another state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called
the woman and asked to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The
man agreed, and the woman conveyed the house to the man by a warranty deed.  

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live
next door. After the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The
man sued the woman for breach of contract.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

How should the court rule? 

A: For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.
B: For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."
C: For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.
D: For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The man's proposed change of use was not known to the woman, nor was it stated in the
contract. His planned change to the use of the house is irrelevant to the outcome of the case. The woman
should prevail, but it is because she sold the house "as is."  

B is correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific.
In this case, the contract specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is." The woman made no
misrepresentations regarding the condition of the house. There are no statutes that might require an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never
visited or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a
warranty of habitability.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of caveat emptor states that the buyer accepts the property in its current condition.
Therefore, the caveat emptor doctrine would not protect the man as the buyer. In fact, a seller may disclaim
any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract
specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.  

D is incorrect. A warranty deed provides remedies for breaches of title matters. Termite damage affects the
physical quality of the property, not title to the property. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose physical
defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract specifically noted that the
house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 217

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1543 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located
in another state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called
the woman and asked to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The
man agreed, and the woman conveyed the house to the man by a warranty deed.  

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live
next door. After the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The
man sued the woman for breach of contract.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

How should the court rule? 

A: For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.
B: For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."
C: For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.
D: For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The man's proposed change of use was not known to the woman, nor was it stated in the
contract. His planned change to the use of the house is irrelevant to the outcome of the case. The woman
should prevail, but it is because she sold the house "as is."  

B is correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific.
In this case, the contract specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is." The woman made no
misrepresentations regarding the condition of the house. There are no statutes that might require an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never
visited or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a
warranty of habitability.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of caveat emptor states that the buyer accepts the property in its current condition.
Therefore, the caveat emptor doctrine would not protect the man as the buyer. In fact, a seller may disclaim
any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract
specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.  

D is incorrect. A warranty deed provides remedies for breaches of title matters. Termite damage affects the
physical quality of the property, not title to the property. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose physical
defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract specifically noted that the
house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 218

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1543 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located
in another state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called
the woman and asked to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The
man agreed, and the woman conveyed the house to the man by a warranty deed.  

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live
next door. After the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The
man sued the woman for breach of contract.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

How should the court rule? 

A: For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.
B: For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."
C: For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.
D: For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The man's proposed change of use was not known to the woman, nor was it stated in the
contract. His planned change to the use of the house is irrelevant to the outcome of the case. The woman
should prevail, but it is because she sold the house "as is."  

B is correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific.
In this case, the contract specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is." The woman made no
misrepresentations regarding the condition of the house. There are no statutes that might require an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never
visited or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a
warranty of habitability.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of caveat emptor states that the buyer accepts the property in its current condition.
Therefore, the caveat emptor doctrine would not protect the man as the buyer. In fact, a seller may disclaim
any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract
specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.  

D is incorrect. A warranty deed provides remedies for breaches of title matters. Termite damage affects the
physical quality of the property, not title to the property. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose physical
defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract specifically noted that the
house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 219

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1543 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located
in another state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called
the woman and asked to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The
man agreed, and the woman conveyed the house to the man by a warranty deed.  

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live
next door. After the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The
man sued the woman for breach of contract.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

How should the court rule? 

A: For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.
B: For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."
C: For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.
D: For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The man's proposed change of use was not known to the woman, nor was it stated in the
contract. His planned change to the use of the house is irrelevant to the outcome of the case. The woman
should prevail, but it is because she sold the house "as is."  

B is correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific.
In this case, the contract specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is." The woman made no
misrepresentations regarding the condition of the house. There are no statutes that might require an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never
visited or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a
warranty of habitability.  

C is incorrect. The doctrine of caveat emptor states that the buyer accepts the property in its current condition.
Therefore, the caveat emptor doctrine would not protect the man as the buyer. In fact, a seller may disclaim
any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract
specifically noted that the house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.  

D is incorrect. A warranty deed provides remedies for breaches of title matters. Termite damage affects the
physical quality of the property, not title to the property. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose physical
defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In this case, the contract specifically noted that the
house was being sold "as is," and therefore the woman should prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 220

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1546 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer
owned a farm, the western border of which was along the eastern border of the man's land. The two tracts of
land had never been in common ownership.  

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion
of the man's land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use.
Since then, the farmer has invested substantial amounts of money and effort each year to develop and
maintain the irrigation facilities within the two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's
actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to writing.  

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to
the farmer or the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he
notified the farmer in writing, "Your license to use the two-acre parcel has been terminated." The notice
instructed the farmer to remove her facilities from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the
nephew's demand.  

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to
continue to use the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.  

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling? 

A: The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as
the man's donee, from terminating the license.
B: The nephew is merely a donee.
C: The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.
D: The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the
oral license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has
acquired what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.  

B is incorrect. It does not matter if the nephew acquired title to the property as a donee or as a purchaser. The
farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral license, has acquired an irrevocable
license (also known as an equitable easement).  

C is incorrect. The two parcels of land have never been in common ownership and therefore an easement
based on prior use cannot be implied. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the
oral license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).  

D is incorrect. The license granted to the farmer was not a license coupled with an interest. A license coupled
with an interest permits a person who owns personal property on the land of another to enter the land to
retrieve the personal property. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral
license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 221

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1546 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer
owned a farm, the western border of which was along the eastern border of the man's land. The two tracts of
land had never been in common ownership.  

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion
of the man's land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use.
Since then, the farmer has invested substantial amounts of money and effort each year to develop and
maintain the irrigation facilities within the two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's
actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to writing.  

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to
the farmer or the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he
notified the farmer in writing, "Your license to use the two-acre parcel has been terminated." The notice
instructed the farmer to remove her facilities from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the
nephew's demand.  

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to
continue to use the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.  

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling? 

A: The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as
the man's donee, from terminating the license.
B: The nephew is merely a donee.
C: The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.
D: The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the
oral license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has
acquired what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.  

B is incorrect. It does not matter if the nephew acquired title to the property as a donee or as a purchaser. The
farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral license, has acquired an irrevocable
license (also known as an equitable easement).  

C is incorrect. The two parcels of land have never been in common ownership and therefore an easement
based on prior use cannot be implied. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the
oral license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).  

D is incorrect. The license granted to the farmer was not a license coupled with an interest. A license coupled
with an interest permits a person who owns personal property on the land of another to enter the land to
retrieve the personal property. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral
license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 222

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1546 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer
owned a farm, the western border of which was along the eastern border of the man's land. The two tracts of
land had never been in common ownership.  

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion
of the man's land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use.
Since then, the farmer has invested substantial amounts of money and effort each year to develop and
maintain the irrigation facilities within the two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's
actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to writing.  

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to
the farmer or the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he
notified the farmer in writing, "Your license to use the two-acre parcel has been terminated." The notice
instructed the farmer to remove her facilities from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the
nephew's demand.  

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to
continue to use the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.  

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling? 

A: The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as
the man's donee, from terminating the license.
B: The nephew is merely a donee.
C: The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.
D: The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the
oral license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has
acquired what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.  

B is incorrect. It does not matter if the nephew acquired title to the property as a donee or as a purchaser. The
farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral license, has acquired an irrevocable
license (also known as an equitable easement).  

C is incorrect. The two parcels of land have never been in common ownership and therefore an easement
based on prior use cannot be implied. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the
oral license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).  

D is incorrect. The license granted to the farmer was not a license coupled with an interest. A license coupled
with an interest permits a person who owns personal property on the land of another to enter the land to
retrieve the personal property. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral
license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 223

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1546 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer
owned a farm, the western border of which was along the eastern border of the man's land. The two tracts of
land had never been in common ownership.  

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion
of the man's land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use.
Since then, the farmer has invested substantial amounts of money and effort each year to develop and
maintain the irrigation facilities within the two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's
actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to writing.  

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to
the farmer or the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he
notified the farmer in writing, "Your license to use the two-acre parcel has been terminated." The notice
instructed the farmer to remove her facilities from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the
nephew's demand.  

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to
continue to use the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.  

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling? 

A: The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as
the man's donee, from terminating the license.
B: The nephew is merely a donee.
C: The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.
D: The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the
oral license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has
acquired what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.  

B is incorrect. It does not matter if the nephew acquired title to the property as a donee or as a purchaser. The
farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral license, has acquired an irrevocable
license (also known as an equitable easement).  

C is incorrect. The two parcels of land have never been in common ownership and therefore an easement
based on prior use cannot be implied. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the
oral license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).  

D is incorrect. The license granted to the farmer was not a license coupled with an interest. A license coupled
with an interest permits a person who owns personal property on the land of another to enter the land to
retrieve the personal property. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral
license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 224

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1546 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer
owned a farm, the western border of which was along the eastern border of the man's land. The two tracts of
land had never been in common ownership.  

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion
of the man's land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use.
Since then, the farmer has invested substantial amounts of money and effort each year to develop and
maintain the irrigation facilities within the two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's
actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to writing.  

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to
the farmer or the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he
notified the farmer in writing, "Your license to use the two-acre parcel has been terminated." The notice
instructed the farmer to remove her facilities from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the
nephew's demand.  

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to
continue to use the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.  

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling? 

A: The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as
the man's donee, from terminating the license.
B: The nephew is merely a donee.
C: The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.
D: The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the
oral license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has
acquired what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.  

B is incorrect. It does not matter if the nephew acquired title to the property as a donee or as a purchaser. The
farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral license, has acquired an irrevocable
license (also known as an equitable easement).  

C is incorrect. The two parcels of land have never been in common ownership and therefore an easement
based on prior use cannot be implied. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the
oral license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).  

D is incorrect. The license granted to the farmer was not a license coupled with an interest. A license coupled
with an interest permits a person who owns personal property on the land of another to enter the land to
retrieve the personal property. The farmer, by her expenditure of labor and money in reliance on the oral
license, has acquired an irrevocable license (also known as an equitable easement).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 225

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1552 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Two friends planned to incorporate a business together and agreed that they would own all of the corporation's
stock in equal proportion.  

A businesswoman conveyed land by a warranty deed to "the corporation and its successors and assigns." The
deed was recorded.  

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Who owns the land? 

A: The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.
B: The businesswoman, because the deed was void.
C: The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal
proportion.
D: The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The businesswoman owns the land, but she does so because the deed was void. To be valid, a
deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a corporation that
has not yet been legally formed, is void. It does not matter whether the deed is a warranty, quitclaim, or special
warranty deed. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the land to the corporation, the
corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

B is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted
to convey the land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

C is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.  

D is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to be the sole shareholders. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 226

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1552 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Two friends planned to incorporate a business together and agreed that they would own all of the corporation's
stock in equal proportion.  

A businesswoman conveyed land by a warranty deed to "the corporation and its successors and assigns." The
deed was recorded.  

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Who owns the land? 

A: The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.
B: The businesswoman, because the deed was void.
C: The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal
proportion.
D: The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The businesswoman owns the land, but she does so because the deed was void. To be valid, a
deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a corporation that
has not yet been legally formed, is void. It does not matter whether the deed is a warranty, quitclaim, or special
warranty deed. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the land to the corporation, the
corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

B is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted
to convey the land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

C is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.  

D is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to be the sole shareholders. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 227

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1552 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Two friends planned to incorporate a business together and agreed that they would own all of the corporation's
stock in equal proportion.  

A businesswoman conveyed land by a warranty deed to "the corporation and its successors and assigns." The
deed was recorded.  

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Who owns the land? 

A: The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.
B: The businesswoman, because the deed was void.
C: The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal
proportion.
D: The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The businesswoman owns the land, but she does so because the deed was void. To be valid, a
deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a corporation that
has not yet been legally formed, is void. It does not matter whether the deed is a warranty, quitclaim, or special
warranty deed. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the land to the corporation, the
corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

B is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted
to convey the land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

C is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.  

D is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to be the sole shareholders. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 228

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1552 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Two friends planned to incorporate a business together and agreed that they would own all of the corporation's
stock in equal proportion.  

A businesswoman conveyed land by a warranty deed to "the corporation and its successors and assigns." The
deed was recorded.  

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Who owns the land? 

A: The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.
B: The businesswoman, because the deed was void.
C: The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal
proportion.
D: The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The businesswoman owns the land, but she does so because the deed was void. To be valid, a
deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a corporation that
has not yet been legally formed, is void. It does not matter whether the deed is a warranty, quitclaim, or special
warranty deed. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the land to the corporation, the
corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

B is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted
to convey the land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

C is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.  

D is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to be the sole shareholders. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 229

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1552 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

Two friends planned to incorporate a business together and agreed that they would own all of the corporation's
stock in equal proportion.  

A businesswoman conveyed land by a warranty deed to "the corporation and its successors and assigns." The
deed was recorded.  

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.  

There is no applicable statute.  

Who owns the land? 

A: The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.
B: The businesswoman, because the deed was void.
C: The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal
proportion.
D: The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The businesswoman owns the land, but she does so because the deed was void. To be valid, a
deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a corporation that
has not yet been legally formed, is void. It does not matter whether the deed is a warranty, quitclaim, or special
warranty deed. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the land to the corporation, the
corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

B is correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted
to convey the land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.  

C is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.  

D is incorrect. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee,
such as a corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void and thus conveys no title. It is irrelevant that
the two friends intended to be the sole shareholders. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 230

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1554 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds
and was not recorded. During the lease term, the tenant sent an email to the landlord that stated: "I hereby
offer to purchase for $250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The
tenant's name was placed below the word "signed" on the message.  

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was
placed below the word "signed" on the reply message.  

Sixty days later, the landlord refused to tender the deed to the building when the tenant tendered the $250,000
purchase price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.  

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after
the lease term expired.
B: The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute
of frauds.
C: The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.
D: The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A contract to convey the building could be made during the lease term or thereafter. The email
exchange satisfied the statute of frauds, the contract was valid, and the tenant is entitled to specific
performance.  

B is incorrect. The statute of frauds does require a signature by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
However, courts are liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the
writing. Both the tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately
reflected their desire to be bound. The other requirements of the statute of frauds were also met: the writings
identified the parties and the property, expressed an intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term.  

C is incorrect. Attornment is not an issue in this case, because it is the tenant who wants to purchase the
property. The tenant is likely to prevail, but it is because there was a valid contract of sale. The exchange of
emails satisfies the statute of frauds, because the writings identified the parties and the property, expressed an
intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term and adequate signatures.  

D is correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a
description of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the
party against whom enforcement is sought. The email messages here fulfill those requirements. Courts are
liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the writing. Both the
tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their
desire to be bound.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 231

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1554 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds
and was not recorded. During the lease term, the tenant sent an email to the landlord that stated: "I hereby
offer to purchase for $250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The
tenant's name was placed below the word "signed" on the message.  

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was
placed below the word "signed" on the reply message.  

Sixty days later, the landlord refused to tender the deed to the building when the tenant tendered the $250,000
purchase price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.  

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after
the lease term expired.
B: The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute
of frauds.
C: The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.
D: The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A contract to convey the building could be made during the lease term or thereafter. The email
exchange satisfied the statute of frauds, the contract was valid, and the tenant is entitled to specific
performance.  

B is incorrect. The statute of frauds does require a signature by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
However, courts are liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the
writing. Both the tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately
reflected their desire to be bound. The other requirements of the statute of frauds were also met: the writings
identified the parties and the property, expressed an intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term.  

C is incorrect. Attornment is not an issue in this case, because it is the tenant who wants to purchase the
property. The tenant is likely to prevail, but it is because there was a valid contract of sale. The exchange of
emails satisfies the statute of frauds, because the writings identified the parties and the property, expressed an
intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term and adequate signatures.  

D is correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a
description of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the
party against whom enforcement is sought. The email messages here fulfill those requirements. Courts are
liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the writing. Both the
tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their
desire to be bound.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 232

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1554 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds
and was not recorded. During the lease term, the tenant sent an email to the landlord that stated: "I hereby
offer to purchase for $250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The
tenant's name was placed below the word "signed" on the message.  

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was
placed below the word "signed" on the reply message.  

Sixty days later, the landlord refused to tender the deed to the building when the tenant tendered the $250,000
purchase price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.  

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after
the lease term expired.
B: The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute
of frauds.
C: The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.
D: The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A contract to convey the building could be made during the lease term or thereafter. The email
exchange satisfied the statute of frauds, the contract was valid, and the tenant is entitled to specific
performance.  

B is incorrect. The statute of frauds does require a signature by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
However, courts are liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the
writing. Both the tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately
reflected their desire to be bound. The other requirements of the statute of frauds were also met: the writings
identified the parties and the property, expressed an intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term.  

C is incorrect. Attornment is not an issue in this case, because it is the tenant who wants to purchase the
property. The tenant is likely to prevail, but it is because there was a valid contract of sale. The exchange of
emails satisfies the statute of frauds, because the writings identified the parties and the property, expressed an
intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term and adequate signatures.  

D is correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a
description of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the
party against whom enforcement is sought. The email messages here fulfill those requirements. Courts are
liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the writing. Both the
tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their
desire to be bound.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 233

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1554 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds
and was not recorded. During the lease term, the tenant sent an email to the landlord that stated: "I hereby
offer to purchase for $250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The
tenant's name was placed below the word "signed" on the message.  

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was
placed below the word "signed" on the reply message.  

Sixty days later, the landlord refused to tender the deed to the building when the tenant tendered the $250,000
purchase price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.  

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after
the lease term expired.
B: The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute
of frauds.
C: The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.
D: The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A contract to convey the building could be made during the lease term or thereafter. The email
exchange satisfied the statute of frauds, the contract was valid, and the tenant is entitled to specific
performance.  

B is incorrect. The statute of frauds does require a signature by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
However, courts are liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the
writing. Both the tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately
reflected their desire to be bound. The other requirements of the statute of frauds were also met: the writings
identified the parties and the property, expressed an intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term.  

C is incorrect. Attornment is not an issue in this case, because it is the tenant who wants to purchase the
property. The tenant is likely to prevail, but it is because there was a valid contract of sale. The exchange of
emails satisfies the statute of frauds, because the writings identified the parties and the property, expressed an
intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term and adequate signatures.  

D is correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a
description of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the
party against whom enforcement is sought. The email messages here fulfill those requirements. Courts are
liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the writing. Both the
tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their
desire to be bound.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 234

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1554 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds
and was not recorded. During the lease term, the tenant sent an email to the landlord that stated: "I hereby
offer to purchase for $250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The
tenant's name was placed below the word "signed" on the message.  

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was
placed below the word "signed" on the reply message.  

Sixty days later, the landlord refused to tender the deed to the building when the tenant tendered the $250,000
purchase price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.  

Who is likely to prevail? 

A: The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after
the lease term expired.
B: The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute
of frauds.
C: The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.
D: The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A contract to convey the building could be made during the lease term or thereafter. The email
exchange satisfied the statute of frauds, the contract was valid, and the tenant is entitled to specific
performance.  

B is incorrect. The statute of frauds does require a signature by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
However, courts are liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the
writing. Both the tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately
reflected their desire to be bound. The other requirements of the statute of frauds were also met: the writings
identified the parties and the property, expressed an intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term.  

C is incorrect. Attornment is not an issue in this case, because it is the tenant who wants to purchase the
property. The tenant is likely to prevail, but it is because there was a valid contract of sale. The exchange of
emails satisfies the statute of frauds, because the writings identified the parties and the property, expressed an
intent to buy and sell, and contained a price term and adequate signatures.  

D is correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a
description of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the
party against whom enforcement is sought. The email messages here fulfill those requirements. Courts are
liberal regarding the nature of a signature; it need only reflect an intent to authenticate the writing. Both the
tenant's and the landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their
desire to be bound.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 235

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1564 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A tenant leased a commercial property from a landlord for a 12-year term. The property included a large store
and a parking lot. At the start of the lease period, the tenant took possession and with the landlord's oral
consent installed counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease
terms.  

The lease is set to expire next month. Two weeks ago, when the landlord contacted the tenant about a
possible lease renewal, she learned that the tenant had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant
planned to remove all of the above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed
that all the items had become part of the real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted
his right and intention to remove all the items.  

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord
consented and the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the
items.  

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items. How is the court likely to rule? 

A: For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.
B: For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not
attached to the premises other than by weight.
C: For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for
the cost of restoration.
D: For the tenant, because all of the items may be removed as trade fixtures without any obligation to restore
the premises.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

B is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration. Whether an item is bolted or otherwise attached to the premises is only
a factor in determining if it is a fixture.  

C is correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove them before the end of the lease term unless very
substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the removal of these items will cause
substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

D is incorrect. The tenant may be obligated to restore the premises. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant
has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove
them before the end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is
unlikely that the removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either
restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 236

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1564 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A tenant leased a commercial property from a landlord for a 12-year term. The property included a large store
and a parking lot. At the start of the lease period, the tenant took possession and with the landlord's oral
consent installed counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease
terms.  

The lease is set to expire next month. Two weeks ago, when the landlord contacted the tenant about a
possible lease renewal, she learned that the tenant had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant
planned to remove all of the above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed
that all the items had become part of the real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted
his right and intention to remove all the items.  

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord
consented and the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the
items.  

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items. How is the court likely to rule? 

A: For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.
B: For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not
attached to the premises other than by weight.
C: For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for
the cost of restoration.
D: For the tenant, because all of the items may be removed as trade fixtures without any obligation to restore
the premises.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

B is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration. Whether an item is bolted or otherwise attached to the premises is only
a factor in determining if it is a fixture.  

C is correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove them before the end of the lease term unless very
substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the removal of these items will cause
substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

D is incorrect. The tenant may be obligated to restore the premises. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant
has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove
them before the end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is
unlikely that the removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either
restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 237

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1564 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A tenant leased a commercial property from a landlord for a 12-year term. The property included a large store
and a parking lot. At the start of the lease period, the tenant took possession and with the landlord's oral
consent installed counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease
terms.  

The lease is set to expire next month. Two weeks ago, when the landlord contacted the tenant about a
possible lease renewal, she learned that the tenant had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant
planned to remove all of the above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed
that all the items had become part of the real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted
his right and intention to remove all the items.  

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord
consented and the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the
items.  

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items. How is the court likely to rule? 

A: For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.
B: For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not
attached to the premises other than by weight.
C: For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for
the cost of restoration.
D: For the tenant, because all of the items may be removed as trade fixtures without any obligation to restore
the premises.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

B is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration. Whether an item is bolted or otherwise attached to the premises is only
a factor in determining if it is a fixture.  

C is correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove them before the end of the lease term unless very
substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the removal of these items will cause
substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

D is incorrect. The tenant may be obligated to restore the premises. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant
has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove
them before the end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is
unlikely that the removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either
restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 238

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1564 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A tenant leased a commercial property from a landlord for a 12-year term. The property included a large store
and a parking lot. At the start of the lease period, the tenant took possession and with the landlord's oral
consent installed counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease
terms.  

The lease is set to expire next month. Two weeks ago, when the landlord contacted the tenant about a
possible lease renewal, she learned that the tenant had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant
planned to remove all of the above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed
that all the items had become part of the real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted
his right and intention to remove all the items.  

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord
consented and the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the
items.  

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items. How is the court likely to rule? 

A: For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.
B: For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not
attached to the premises other than by weight.
C: For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for
the cost of restoration.
D: For the tenant, because all of the items may be removed as trade fixtures without any obligation to restore
the premises.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

B is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration. Whether an item is bolted or otherwise attached to the premises is only
a factor in determining if it is a fixture.  

C is correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove them before the end of the lease term unless very
substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the removal of these items will cause
substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

D is incorrect. The tenant may be obligated to restore the premises. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant
has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove
them before the end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is
unlikely that the removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either
restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 239

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1564 - Real Property - Rights in Land

 The question was: 

A tenant leased a commercial property from a landlord for a 12-year term. The property included a large store
and a parking lot. At the start of the lease period, the tenant took possession and with the landlord's oral
consent installed counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease
terms.  

The lease is set to expire next month. Two weeks ago, when the landlord contacted the tenant about a
possible lease renewal, she learned that the tenant had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant
planned to remove all of the above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed
that all the items had become part of the real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted
his right and intention to remove all the items.  

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord
consented and the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the
items.  

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items. How is the court likely to rule? 

A: For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.
B: For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not
attached to the premises other than by weight.
C: For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for
the cost of restoration.
D: For the tenant, because all of the items may be removed as trade fixtures without any obligation to restore
the premises.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

B is incorrect. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
even if the items have become fixtures, they are trade fixtures, which may be removed by the tenant before the
end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the
removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the
premises or pay the cost of restoration. Whether an item is bolted or otherwise attached to the premises is only
a factor in determining if it is a fixture.  

C is correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore,
the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove them before the end of the lease term unless very
substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is unlikely that the removal of these items will cause
substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.  

D is incorrect. The tenant may be obligated to restore the premises. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant
has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items are trade fixtures, and the tenant may remove
them before the end of the lease term unless very substantial damage would be done by the removal. It is
unlikely that the removal of these items will cause substantial damage; if so, however, the tenant must either
restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 240

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1570 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never
physically occupied the land.  

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the
farm caused her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.  

Three years ago, when the woman was not present, a neighbor took over possession of the farm. The
neighbor repaired fences, put up "no trespassing" signs, and did some plowing. When the woman returned,
she found the neighbor in possession of the farm. The neighbor vigorously rejected the woman's claimed right
to possession and threatened force. The woman withdrew.  

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the
man that she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The
man thanked her.  

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to
convey the farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.  

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.  

Who now owns the farm? 

A: The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.
B: The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of
possession.
C: The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.
D: The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can
convey the farm to her son.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman acquired her title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an
original title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real
property be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man,
and the woman validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

B is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The neighbor's actions may have started the statute of limitations
running on his adverse possession of the farm, but he has been in possession of the farm for only three years.
In addition, the neighbor was never in privity with the woman.  

C is correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in
writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man, and the woman
validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

D is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real property
be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man. Having
established title to the farm by adverse possession, there is no requirement that the woman sue to establish
title. Therefore, she could convey the farm to her son.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 241

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1570 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never
physically occupied the land.  

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the
farm caused her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.  

Three years ago, when the woman was not present, a neighbor took over possession of the farm. The
neighbor repaired fences, put up "no trespassing" signs, and did some plowing. When the woman returned,
she found the neighbor in possession of the farm. The neighbor vigorously rejected the woman's claimed right
to possession and threatened force. The woman withdrew.  

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the
man that she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The
man thanked her.  

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to
convey the farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.  

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.  

Who now owns the farm? 

A: The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.
B: The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of
possession.
C: The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.
D: The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can
convey the farm to her son.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman acquired her title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an
original title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real
property be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man,
and the woman validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

B is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The neighbor's actions may have started the statute of limitations
running on his adverse possession of the farm, but he has been in possession of the farm for only three years.
In addition, the neighbor was never in privity with the woman.  

C is correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in
writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man, and the woman
validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

D is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real property
be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man. Having
established title to the farm by adverse possession, there is no requirement that the woman sue to establish
title. Therefore, she could convey the farm to her son.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 242

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1570 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never
physically occupied the land.  

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the
farm caused her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.  

Three years ago, when the woman was not present, a neighbor took over possession of the farm. The
neighbor repaired fences, put up "no trespassing" signs, and did some plowing. When the woman returned,
she found the neighbor in possession of the farm. The neighbor vigorously rejected the woman's claimed right
to possession and threatened force. The woman withdrew.  

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the
man that she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The
man thanked her.  

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to
convey the farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.  

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.  

Who now owns the farm? 

A: The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.
B: The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of
possession.
C: The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.
D: The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can
convey the farm to her son.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman acquired her title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an
original title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real
property be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man,
and the woman validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

B is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The neighbor's actions may have started the statute of limitations
running on his adverse possession of the farm, but he has been in possession of the farm for only three years.
In addition, the neighbor was never in privity with the woman.  

C is correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in
writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man, and the woman
validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

D is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real property
be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man. Having
established title to the farm by adverse possession, there is no requirement that the woman sue to establish
title. Therefore, she could convey the farm to her son.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 243

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1570 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never
physically occupied the land.  

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the
farm caused her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.  

Three years ago, when the woman was not present, a neighbor took over possession of the farm. The
neighbor repaired fences, put up "no trespassing" signs, and did some plowing. When the woman returned,
she found the neighbor in possession of the farm. The neighbor vigorously rejected the woman's claimed right
to possession and threatened force. The woman withdrew.  

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the
man that she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The
man thanked her.  

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to
convey the farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.  

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.  

Who now owns the farm? 

A: The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.
B: The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of
possession.
C: The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.
D: The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can
convey the farm to her son.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman acquired her title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an
original title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real
property be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man,
and the woman validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

B is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The neighbor's actions may have started the statute of limitations
running on his adverse possession of the farm, but he has been in possession of the farm for only three years.
In addition, the neighbor was never in privity with the woman.  

C is correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in
writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man, and the woman
validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

D is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real property
be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man. Having
established title to the farm by adverse possession, there is no requirement that the woman sue to establish
title. Therefore, she could convey the farm to her son.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 244

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1570 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never
physically occupied the land.  

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the
farm caused her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.  

Three years ago, when the woman was not present, a neighbor took over possession of the farm. The
neighbor repaired fences, put up "no trespassing" signs, and did some plowing. When the woman returned,
she found the neighbor in possession of the farm. The neighbor vigorously rejected the woman's claimed right
to possession and threatened force. The woman withdrew.  

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the
man that she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The
man thanked her.  

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to
convey the farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.  

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.  

Who now owns the farm? 

A: The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.
B: The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of
possession.
C: The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.
D: The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can
convey the farm to her son.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The woman acquired her title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an
original title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real
property be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man,
and the woman validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

B is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The neighbor's actions may have started the statute of limitations
running on his adverse possession of the farm, but he has been in possession of the farm for only three years.
In addition, the neighbor was never in privity with the woman.  

C is correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in
writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man, and the woman
validly conveyed the farm to her son.  

D is incorrect. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original
title and did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that any conveyance of real property
be in writing. Therefore, the woman's oral statement was insufficient to release the title to the man. Having
established title to the farm by adverse possession, there is no requirement that the woman sue to establish
title. Therefore, she could convey the farm to her son.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.














Page 245

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1575 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my
niece and her heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's
daughter and her heirs and assigns in fee simple."  

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the
jurisdiction.  

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?  

A: The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.
B: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there
can be no gift over.
C: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years
after the date of the deed.
D: The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The gift to the niece was to the niece "and her heirs and assigns," thereby creating a fee estate
rather than a life estate. The fee simple estate was made defeasible by the addition of the words of limitation
"until my niece's daughter marries." A remainder interest may follow a life estate; however, a remainder does
not follow a fee simple estate. A future interest created in a grantee following a defeasible estate is an
executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, because
it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the
condition of marriage has occurred.  

B is incorrect. The niece was given a defeasible fee simple. A limitation may be expressly attached to a fee
simple estate. The express limitation attached to the grant was "until my niece's daughter marries." A future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. The executory interest in this
case does not violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of
the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.  

C is incorrect. The niece was granted a defeasible fee simple. The express limitation was the marriage of the
niece's daughter. If the limitation occurs, the estate transfers automatically to the niece's daughter. The future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. Executory interests are subject
to the common law Rule Against Perpetuities; however, the niece and the niece's daughter are both validating
lives and the condition of the marriage either will or will not occur during their lifetimes. The additional 21 years
after the death of all validating lives is not needed, and the rule is not violated.  

D is correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words
"until my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end
automatically and will pass to the holder of the future interest (the niece's daughter). The future interest given
to the daughter, a grantee, is an executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the
niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 246

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1575 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my
niece and her heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's
daughter and her heirs and assigns in fee simple."  

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the
jurisdiction.  

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?  

A: The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.
B: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there
can be no gift over.
C: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years
after the date of the deed.
D: The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The gift to the niece was to the niece "and her heirs and assigns," thereby creating a fee estate
rather than a life estate. The fee simple estate was made defeasible by the addition of the words of limitation
"until my niece's daughter marries." A remainder interest may follow a life estate; however, a remainder does
not follow a fee simple estate. A future interest created in a grantee following a defeasible estate is an
executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, because
it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the
condition of marriage has occurred.  

B is incorrect. The niece was given a defeasible fee simple. A limitation may be expressly attached to a fee
simple estate. The express limitation attached to the grant was "until my niece's daughter marries." A future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. The executory interest in this
case does not violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of
the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.  

C is incorrect. The niece was granted a defeasible fee simple. The express limitation was the marriage of the
niece's daughter. If the limitation occurs, the estate transfers automatically to the niece's daughter. The future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. Executory interests are subject
to the common law Rule Against Perpetuities; however, the niece and the niece's daughter are both validating
lives and the condition of the marriage either will or will not occur during their lifetimes. The additional 21 years
after the death of all validating lives is not needed, and the rule is not violated.  

D is correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words
"until my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end
automatically and will pass to the holder of the future interest (the niece's daughter). The future interest given
to the daughter, a grantee, is an executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the
niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 247

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1575 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my
niece and her heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's
daughter and her heirs and assigns in fee simple."  

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the
jurisdiction.  

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?  

A: The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.
B: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there
can be no gift over.
C: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years
after the date of the deed.
D: The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The gift to the niece was to the niece "and her heirs and assigns," thereby creating a fee estate
rather than a life estate. The fee simple estate was made defeasible by the addition of the words of limitation
"until my niece's daughter marries." A remainder interest may follow a life estate; however, a remainder does
not follow a fee simple estate. A future interest created in a grantee following a defeasible estate is an
executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, because
it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the
condition of marriage has occurred.  

B is incorrect. The niece was given a defeasible fee simple. A limitation may be expressly attached to a fee
simple estate. The express limitation attached to the grant was "until my niece's daughter marries." A future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. The executory interest in this
case does not violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of
the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.  

C is incorrect. The niece was granted a defeasible fee simple. The express limitation was the marriage of the
niece's daughter. If the limitation occurs, the estate transfers automatically to the niece's daughter. The future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. Executory interests are subject
to the common law Rule Against Perpetuities; however, the niece and the niece's daughter are both validating
lives and the condition of the marriage either will or will not occur during their lifetimes. The additional 21 years
after the death of all validating lives is not needed, and the rule is not violated.  

D is correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words
"until my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end
automatically and will pass to the holder of the future interest (the niece's daughter). The future interest given
to the daughter, a grantee, is an executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the
niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 248

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1575 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my
niece and her heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's
daughter and her heirs and assigns in fee simple."  

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the
jurisdiction.  

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?  

A: The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.
B: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there
can be no gift over.
C: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years
after the date of the deed.
D: The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The gift to the niece was to the niece "and her heirs and assigns," thereby creating a fee estate
rather than a life estate. The fee simple estate was made defeasible by the addition of the words of limitation
"until my niece's daughter marries." A remainder interest may follow a life estate; however, a remainder does
not follow a fee simple estate. A future interest created in a grantee following a defeasible estate is an
executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, because
it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the
condition of marriage has occurred.  

B is incorrect. The niece was given a defeasible fee simple. A limitation may be expressly attached to a fee
simple estate. The express limitation attached to the grant was "until my niece's daughter marries." A future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. The executory interest in this
case does not violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of
the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.  

C is incorrect. The niece was granted a defeasible fee simple. The express limitation was the marriage of the
niece's daughter. If the limitation occurs, the estate transfers automatically to the niece's daughter. The future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. Executory interests are subject
to the common law Rule Against Perpetuities; however, the niece and the niece's daughter are both validating
lives and the condition of the marriage either will or will not occur during their lifetimes. The additional 21 years
after the death of all validating lives is not needed, and the rule is not violated.  

D is correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words
"until my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end
automatically and will pass to the holder of the future interest (the niece's daughter). The future interest given
to the daughter, a grantee, is an executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the
niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 249

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1575 - Real Property - Ownership

 The question was: 

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my
niece and her heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's
daughter and her heirs and assigns in fee simple."  

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the
jurisdiction.  

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?  

A: The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.
B: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there
can be no gift over.
C: The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years
after the date of the deed.
D: The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The gift to the niece was to the niece "and her heirs and assigns," thereby creating a fee estate
rather than a life estate. The fee simple estate was made defeasible by the addition of the words of limitation
"until my niece's daughter marries." A remainder interest may follow a life estate; however, a remainder does
not follow a fee simple estate. A future interest created in a grantee following a defeasible estate is an
executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, because
it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the
condition of marriage has occurred.  

B is incorrect. The niece was given a defeasible fee simple. A limitation may be expressly attached to a fee
simple estate. The express limitation attached to the grant was "until my niece's daughter marries." A future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. The executory interest in this
case does not violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of
the validating lives--the niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.  

C is incorrect. The niece was granted a defeasible fee simple. The express limitation was the marriage of the
niece's daughter. If the limitation occurs, the estate transfers automatically to the niece's daughter. The future
interest held by a grantee following a defeasible estate is an executory interest. Executory interests are subject
to the common law Rule Against Perpetuities; however, the niece and the niece's daughter are both validating
lives and the condition of the marriage either will or will not occur during their lifetimes. The additional 21 years
after the death of all validating lives is not needed, and the rule is not violated.  

D is correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words
"until my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end
automatically and will pass to the holder of the future interest (the niece's daughter). The future interest given
to the daughter, a grantee, is an executory interest. The executory interest in this case does not violate the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities, because it will be known within the lifetime of the validating lives--the
niece and the niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 250

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1585 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A businessman executed a promissory note for $200,000 to a bank, secured by a mortgage on commercial
real estate owned by the businessman. The promissory note stated that the businessman was not personally
liable for the mortgage debt.  

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the
judgment in the county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance
company had no actual notice of the bank's mortgage.  

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.  

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance
or mortgage of real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice or
against judgment creditors without notice."  

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank
intervened in the action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its
mortgage was a first lien.  

Is the bank's contention correct? 

A: No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual
notice of the mortgage.
B: No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was
therefore void.
C: Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt is irrelevant and
does not make the mortgage void. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects
judgment creditors without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no
constructive notice because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The
bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

C is incorrect. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority. Priority is determined under these
facts by the order of filing.  

D is incorrect. The recording of a mortgage does not relate back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.
The mortgage gives constructive notice as of the date of its recording. Therefore, at the time the judgment was
recorded, the finance company had neither actual nor constructive notice of the mortgage and is protected
under the jurisdiction's recording act. The bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would
have given it priority.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 251

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1585 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A businessman executed a promissory note for $200,000 to a bank, secured by a mortgage on commercial
real estate owned by the businessman. The promissory note stated that the businessman was not personally
liable for the mortgage debt.  

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the
judgment in the county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance
company had no actual notice of the bank's mortgage.  

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.  

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance
or mortgage of real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice or
against judgment creditors without notice."  

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank
intervened in the action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its
mortgage was a first lien.  

Is the bank's contention correct? 

A: No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual
notice of the mortgage.
B: No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was
therefore void.
C: Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt is irrelevant and
does not make the mortgage void. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects
judgment creditors without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no
constructive notice because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The
bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

C is incorrect. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority. Priority is determined under these
facts by the order of filing.  

D is incorrect. The recording of a mortgage does not relate back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.
The mortgage gives constructive notice as of the date of its recording. Therefore, at the time the judgment was
recorded, the finance company had neither actual nor constructive notice of the mortgage and is protected
under the jurisdiction's recording act. The bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would
have given it priority.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 252

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1585 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A businessman executed a promissory note for $200,000 to a bank, secured by a mortgage on commercial
real estate owned by the businessman. The promissory note stated that the businessman was not personally
liable for the mortgage debt.  

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the
judgment in the county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance
company had no actual notice of the bank's mortgage.  

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.  

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance
or mortgage of real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice or
against judgment creditors without notice."  

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank
intervened in the action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its
mortgage was a first lien.  

Is the bank's contention correct? 

A: No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual
notice of the mortgage.
B: No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was
therefore void.
C: Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt is irrelevant and
does not make the mortgage void. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects
judgment creditors without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no
constructive notice because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The
bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

C is incorrect. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority. Priority is determined under these
facts by the order of filing.  

D is incorrect. The recording of a mortgage does not relate back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.
The mortgage gives constructive notice as of the date of its recording. Therefore, at the time the judgment was
recorded, the finance company had neither actual nor constructive notice of the mortgage and is protected
under the jurisdiction's recording act. The bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would
have given it priority.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 253

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1585 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A businessman executed a promissory note for $200,000 to a bank, secured by a mortgage on commercial
real estate owned by the businessman. The promissory note stated that the businessman was not personally
liable for the mortgage debt.  

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the
judgment in the county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance
company had no actual notice of the bank's mortgage.  

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.  

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance
or mortgage of real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice or
against judgment creditors without notice."  

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank
intervened in the action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its
mortgage was a first lien.  

Is the bank's contention correct? 

A: No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual
notice of the mortgage.
B: No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was
therefore void.
C: Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt is irrelevant and
does not make the mortgage void. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects
judgment creditors without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no
constructive notice because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The
bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

C is incorrect. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority. Priority is determined under these
facts by the order of filing.  

D is incorrect. The recording of a mortgage does not relate back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.
The mortgage gives constructive notice as of the date of its recording. Therefore, at the time the judgment was
recorded, the finance company had neither actual nor constructive notice of the mortgage and is protected
under the jurisdiction's recording act. The bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would
have given it priority.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 254

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1585 - Real Property - Titles

 The question was: 

A businessman executed a promissory note for $200,000 to a bank, secured by a mortgage on commercial
real estate owned by the businessman. The promissory note stated that the businessman was not personally
liable for the mortgage debt.  

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the
judgment in the county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance
company had no actual notice of the bank's mortgage.  

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.  

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance
or mortgage of real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice or
against judgment creditors without notice."  

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank
intervened in the action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its
mortgage was a first lien.  

Is the bank's contention correct? 

A: No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual
notice of the mortgage.
B: No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was
therefore void.
C: Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.
D: Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt is irrelevant and
does not make the mortgage void. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects
judgment creditors without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no
constructive notice because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The
bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.  

C is incorrect. The judgment was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors
without notice. The finance company had no actual notice of the mortgage and had no constructive notice
because the mortgage was not recorded until two weeks after the judgment was filed. The bank's mortgage
was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority. Priority is determined under these
facts by the order of filing.  

D is incorrect. The recording of a mortgage does not relate back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.
The mortgage gives constructive notice as of the date of its recording. Therefore, at the time the judgment was
recorded, the finance company had neither actual nor constructive notice of the mortgage and is protected
under the jurisdiction's recording act. The bank's mortgage was not a purchase-money mortgage, which would
have given it priority.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 255

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1590 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A seller conveyed residential land to a buyer by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions and recited that
the full consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds
from a bank. The seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for
the remaining 5%.  

At the closing, the buyer signed a promissory note to the seller for 15% of the purchase price but did not
execute a mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by
the buyer to the seller. The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80%
advanced by the bank.  

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

Which loan has priority? 

A: The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment
land contract.
B: The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.
C: The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential
property.
D: The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A seller may finance the purchase of property in a number of ways, including by an installment
land contract, by securing the note with a purchase-money mortgage, or by an equitable vendor's lien.
However, the seller did not secure the note with a mortgage, nor was an installment land contract used. The
seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

B is correct. The bank has a purchase-money mortgage, because the loan proceeds were used to help
purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes
precedence over any other lien that attaches to the property. The seller's loan could also have been secured
by a purchase-money mortgage, but it was not; the buyer signed an unsecured note to the seller. The seller
also may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

C is incorrect. The seller's promissory note could have been secured by a mortgage, but it was not. The seller
may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

D is incorrect. The seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed
recites that the full consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence
over the seller's unsecured loan as well as any implied equitable vendor's lien, and it is irrelevant that the bank
knew of the vendor's lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 256

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1590 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A seller conveyed residential land to a buyer by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions and recited that
the full consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds
from a bank. The seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for
the remaining 5%.  

At the closing, the buyer signed a promissory note to the seller for 15% of the purchase price but did not
execute a mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by
the buyer to the seller. The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80%
advanced by the bank.  

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

Which loan has priority? 

A: The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment
land contract.
B: The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.
C: The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential
property.
D: The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A seller may finance the purchase of property in a number of ways, including by an installment
land contract, by securing the note with a purchase-money mortgage, or by an equitable vendor's lien.
However, the seller did not secure the note with a mortgage, nor was an installment land contract used. The
seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

B is correct. The bank has a purchase-money mortgage, because the loan proceeds were used to help
purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes
precedence over any other lien that attaches to the property. The seller's loan could also have been secured
by a purchase-money mortgage, but it was not; the buyer signed an unsecured note to the seller. The seller
also may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

C is incorrect. The seller's promissory note could have been secured by a mortgage, but it was not. The seller
may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

D is incorrect. The seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed
recites that the full consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence
over the seller's unsecured loan as well as any implied equitable vendor's lien, and it is irrelevant that the bank
knew of the vendor's lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 257

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1590 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A seller conveyed residential land to a buyer by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions and recited that
the full consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds
from a bank. The seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for
the remaining 5%.  

At the closing, the buyer signed a promissory note to the seller for 15% of the purchase price but did not
execute a mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by
the buyer to the seller. The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80%
advanced by the bank.  

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

Which loan has priority? 

A: The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment
land contract.
B: The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.
C: The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential
property.
D: The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A seller may finance the purchase of property in a number of ways, including by an installment
land contract, by securing the note with a purchase-money mortgage, or by an equitable vendor's lien.
However, the seller did not secure the note with a mortgage, nor was an installment land contract used. The
seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

B is correct. The bank has a purchase-money mortgage, because the loan proceeds were used to help
purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes
precedence over any other lien that attaches to the property. The seller's loan could also have been secured
by a purchase-money mortgage, but it was not; the buyer signed an unsecured note to the seller. The seller
also may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

C is incorrect. The seller's promissory note could have been secured by a mortgage, but it was not. The seller
may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

D is incorrect. The seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed
recites that the full consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence
over the seller's unsecured loan as well as any implied equitable vendor's lien, and it is irrelevant that the bank
knew of the vendor's lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 258

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1590 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A seller conveyed residential land to a buyer by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions and recited that
the full consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds
from a bank. The seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for
the remaining 5%.  

At the closing, the buyer signed a promissory note to the seller for 15% of the purchase price but did not
execute a mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by
the buyer to the seller. The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80%
advanced by the bank.  

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

Which loan has priority? 

A: The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment
land contract.
B: The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.
C: The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential
property.
D: The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A seller may finance the purchase of property in a number of ways, including by an installment
land contract, by securing the note with a purchase-money mortgage, or by an equitable vendor's lien.
However, the seller did not secure the note with a mortgage, nor was an installment land contract used. The
seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

B is correct. The bank has a purchase-money mortgage, because the loan proceeds were used to help
purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes
precedence over any other lien that attaches to the property. The seller's loan could also have been secured
by a purchase-money mortgage, but it was not; the buyer signed an unsecured note to the seller. The seller
also may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

C is incorrect. The seller's promissory note could have been secured by a mortgage, but it was not. The seller
may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

D is incorrect. The seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed
recites that the full consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence
over the seller's unsecured loan as well as any implied equitable vendor's lien, and it is irrelevant that the bank
knew of the vendor's lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 259

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1590 - Real Property - Mortgages

 The question was: 

A seller conveyed residential land to a buyer by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions and recited that
the full consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds
from a bank. The seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for
the remaining 5%.  

At the closing, the buyer signed a promissory note to the seller for 15% of the purchase price but did not
execute a mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by
the buyer to the seller. The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80%
advanced by the bank.  

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.  

There are no applicable statutes.  

Which loan has priority? 

A: The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment
land contract.
B: The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.
C: The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential
property.
D: The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A seller may finance the purchase of property in a number of ways, including by an installment
land contract, by securing the note with a purchase-money mortgage, or by an equitable vendor's lien.
However, the seller did not secure the note with a mortgage, nor was an installment land contract used. The
seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

B is correct. The bank has a purchase-money mortgage, because the loan proceeds were used to help
purchase the land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes
precedence over any other lien that attaches to the property. The seller's loan could also have been secured
by a purchase-money mortgage, but it was not; the buyer signed an unsecured note to the seller. The seller
also may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

C is incorrect. The seller's promissory note could have been secured by a mortgage, but it was not. The seller
may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed recites that the full
consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's
unsecured loan and any implied equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.  

D is incorrect. The seller may have had an equitable vendor's lien for the unpaid purchase price, but the deed
recites that the full consideration was paid. Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence
over the seller's unsecured loan as well as any implied equitable vendor's lien, and it is irrelevant that the bank
knew of the vendor's lien.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 260

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1599 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the
quality of title, but the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without
any exceptions.  

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for
her planned commercial use. She also discovered that there was a recorded restrictive covenant limiting the
use of the land to residential use.  

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.  

Must the buyer purchase the land? 

A: No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.
B: No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.
C: Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.
D: Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer
with a marketable title on the date of closing. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force an unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

B is incorrect. Although in some cases an existing violation of a zoning code may render title unmarketable,
the mere existence of a zoning code does not render the title unmarketable or place a cloud on the title.
Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer with a
marketable title on the date of closing. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

C is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. However, after a buyer accepts the deed, the doctrine of
merger prevents the buyer from raising the issue of marketability of title, and the buyer's remedy regarding title
issues, if any, will be based on the deed.  

D is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. This contract was silent on the quality of title and therefore
a marketable title will be implied. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will require an
unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a restrictive
covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 261

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1599 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the
quality of title, but the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without
any exceptions.  

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for
her planned commercial use. She also discovered that there was a recorded restrictive covenant limiting the
use of the land to residential use.  

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.  

Must the buyer purchase the land? 

A: No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.
B: No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.
C: Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.
D: Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer
with a marketable title on the date of closing. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force an unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

B is incorrect. Although in some cases an existing violation of a zoning code may render title unmarketable,
the mere existence of a zoning code does not render the title unmarketable or place a cloud on the title.
Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer with a
marketable title on the date of closing. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

C is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. However, after a buyer accepts the deed, the doctrine of
merger prevents the buyer from raising the issue of marketability of title, and the buyer's remedy regarding title
issues, if any, will be based on the deed.  

D is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. This contract was silent on the quality of title and therefore
a marketable title will be implied. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will require an
unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a restrictive
covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 262

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1599 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the
quality of title, but the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without
any exceptions.  

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for
her planned commercial use. She also discovered that there was a recorded restrictive covenant limiting the
use of the land to residential use.  

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.  

Must the buyer purchase the land? 

A: No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.
B: No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.
C: Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.
D: Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer
with a marketable title on the date of closing. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force an unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

B is incorrect. Although in some cases an existing violation of a zoning code may render title unmarketable,
the mere existence of a zoning code does not render the title unmarketable or place a cloud on the title.
Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer with a
marketable title on the date of closing. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

C is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. However, after a buyer accepts the deed, the doctrine of
merger prevents the buyer from raising the issue of marketability of title, and the buyer's remedy regarding title
issues, if any, will be based on the deed.  

D is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. This contract was silent on the quality of title and therefore
a marketable title will be implied. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will require an
unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a restrictive
covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 263

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1599 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the
quality of title, but the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without
any exceptions.  

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for
her planned commercial use. She also discovered that there was a recorded restrictive covenant limiting the
use of the land to residential use.  

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.  

Must the buyer purchase the land? 

A: No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.
B: No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.
C: Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.
D: Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer
with a marketable title on the date of closing. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force an unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

B is incorrect. Although in some cases an existing violation of a zoning code may render title unmarketable,
the mere existence of a zoning code does not render the title unmarketable or place a cloud on the title.
Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer with a
marketable title on the date of closing. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

C is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. However, after a buyer accepts the deed, the doctrine of
merger prevents the buyer from raising the issue of marketability of title, and the buyer's remedy regarding title
issues, if any, will be based on the deed.  

D is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. This contract was silent on the quality of title and therefore
a marketable title will be implied. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will require an
unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a restrictive
covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 264

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1599 - Real Property - Contract

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the
quality of title, but the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without
any exceptions.  

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for
her planned commercial use. She also discovered that there was a recorded restrictive covenant limiting the
use of the land to residential use.  

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.  

Must the buyer purchase the land? 

A: No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.
B: No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.
C: Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.
D: Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer
with a marketable title on the date of closing. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force an unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

B is incorrect. Although in some cases an existing violation of a zoning code may render title unmarketable,
the mere existence of a zoning code does not render the title unmarketable or place a cloud on the title.
Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the buyer with a
marketable title on the date of closing. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.  

C is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. However, after a buyer accepts the deed, the doctrine of
merger prevents the buyer from raising the issue of marketability of title, and the buyer's remedy regarding title
issues, if any, will be based on the deed.  

D is incorrect. Unless the contract provides to the contrary, the law will imply that the seller will provide the
buyer with a marketable title on the date of closing. This contract was silent on the quality of title and therefore
a marketable title will be implied. A marketable title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will require an
unwilling buyer to purchase. A right held in the land by a third party, such as the right to enforce a restrictive
covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











