





(Line_1037):  
(Line_1043):  





(Line_1087):  




(Line_1116):  
(Line_1142):  
(Line_1148):  

(Line_1165): 

-------
answers
-------

(Line_1977): A is the correct answer. The Constitution gives Congress the power to make regulations concerning the Supreme Court's appellate jurisdiction. However, Congress cannot frustrate the establishment of a supreme and uniform body of federal law. Thus, the strongest argument against the constitutionality of this statute is that by removing an entire subject of constitutional cases from the appellate jurisdiction of the Court, Congress is frustrating the establishment of a supreme and uniform body of federal law. Fifty state supreme courts could set fifty different standards for measuring the constitutionality of the laws at issue.

(Line_1985): D is the correct answer. The government may regulate the time, place, and manner of religiously motivated conduct as long as the regulation is neutral and serves an important public interest. Here, the regulation is neutral on its face and it is neutrally applied, the Superintendent's views notwithstanding. The interest of public safety is important. Therefore the denial of the permit would be valid. A is incorrect because the permit rules do not target religious practices. B is incorrect because these facts do not demonstrate purposeful and invidious discrimination against the Friends of Lucifer. No group has been allowed to camp all night or to light campfires on Mt. Snow. C is incorrect because the establishment clause does not prohibit the holding of religious ceremonies on public land as long as those ceremonies do not foster an excessive entanglement with religion.

(Line_1987): C is the correct answer. When challenging deprivation of a constitutionally protected right without due process of law, a plaintiff first must demonstrate that she has a constitutionally protected right. Here, the secretary must first demonstrate that state law created a constitutionally protected interest either in her job or in the procedures for termination.

(Line_1989): C is the correct answer. Many explicit grants of power have been interpreted to also empower the branch of government to do whatever is reasonable to exercise that power. Therefore, the strongest argument is that the power of the President to negotiate with foreign nations impliedly authorizes the President to make executive agreements with those nations. If this action is valid, then the supremacy clause would make the agreement prevail over state law.

(Line_1991): C is the correct answer. Congress's spending power is plenary, and Congress can choose how it spends its money so long as that choice can reasonably be said to serve the general welfare and not violate any prohibition in the Constitution. A is incorrect because Congress's creation of a polling system to allocate the funds is not an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. The statute limits the discretion of the university presidents to specific well-recognized and generally accepted standards of academic quality, and so the power granted to the university presidents is very narrow. B is incorrect because limiting the funding to the ten best universities is a reasonable line to have drawn, given the fact that the funds are limited. D is incorrect because the validity of a statute will nearly always be justiciable and not a political question. This statute is not the type of action and is not on a subject that is clearly committed to the sole discretion of Congress by the Constitution, and ruling on the validity of a statute provides judicially manageable standards.

(Line_1993): C is the correct answer. Because the supremacy clause provides that valid federal laws supersede conflicting state laws, the strongest argument for the fishing company to continue to fish for oysters is that it has a federal shipping license that allows it to fish for oysters. A is incorrect because the fishing company was denied a state permit. So the higher rate for permit charges is irrelevant to the fishing company which was denied the permit entirely. For similar reasons, B is incorrect. Additionally, the Privileges and Immunities Clause does not apply to corporations, but only to individuals. Even if the different rates charged to non-residents were to violate the privileges and immunities clause, that is not relevant to the fishing company which was denied the license entirely. Finally, D is incorrect because the permit is a property right which only lasts one year, and so there was no lasting property that the state could have taken.

(Line_1995): D is the correct answer. The supremacy clause of Article VI provides that validly-enacted federal laws supersede conflicting state and local laws. As long as the federal concession statute is valid, which it probably is as an exercise of Congress's ability to make rules and regulations to protect the property of the United States, that law will insulate the activity taking place on federal property from state taxation.

(Line_1997): A is the correct answer. There is no case or controversy here because the candidate lacks standing. One reason he lacks standing is that the issue is not yet ripe for review. The issue is not ripe because the candidate will not suffer an injury until he is barred from running for office or until he has won the election. At that point, an injury will either have occurred or will be so certain to occur as to confer standing. The second reason the candidate lacks standing is that the candidate has not joined the correct party to provide him the relief that will redress the injury. The chairman of his local political party would be the correct party to sue if the political party refuses to put him on the ballot due to the residency requirement. However, the candidate seems to be challenging the qualifications with the assumption that he will not be allowed to take office. The correct defendant would be whichever official enforces those qualifications and determines whether elected officials take office, presumably election officials. Finally, the mere agreement by the parties that the court should consider the issue is irrelevant; standing cannot be created by agreement.

(Line_1999): D is the correct answer. The school's policy classifies on the basis of gender, which is a quasi-suspect class. Gender classifications are subject to intermediate scrutiny: they must be substantially related to an important governmental interest. Moreover, for suspect and quasi-suspect classifications, the government, and not the individual, bears the burden of persuasion. A is incorrect because the standard to apply is not rational basis. B is incorrect because the standard is not correct, and the individual does not bear the burden on standards higher than rational basis. C is not correct because strict scrutiny does not apply to gender classifications.

(Line_2001): C is the correct answer. The standard for evaluating whether a statute affecting abortion is constitutional is whether it imposes an undue burden on the woman seeking an abortion. States are not required to fund abortions, which arguably the state would do in this hypothetical by providing the facilities to do so. This state statute would not prohibit the citizen from having an abortion or penalize her for doing so, and it does not affect her ability to get an abortion from a physician in a private facility. Additionally, the state may have a single-sided policy to encourage childbirth, and this is rationally related to that policy.

(Line_2005): C is the correct answer. There is no injury yet to the power company. It has not yet been denied a rate increase, and it does not even know whether it will need to seek a rate increase before the statute will allow it to. Therefore, there is not yet an actual or imminent injury, and the claim is not yet ripe for decision. A is incorrect because there is no vested property right that the company can claim has been injured. B is incorrect because there has been no injury that would allow a court to really determine whether this legislation is rationally related to a legitimate interest. D is incorrect because Article III provides no exemption for state-regulated utility rates. And, in fact, if the parties presented a case or controversy, the constitutionality of the rate regulation would raise a federal question.

(Line_2007): B is the correct answer. Public employees have the right under the First Amendment to express their views on issues of public concern. The statement in this case, on the merits of the governor were clearly on a matter of public concern. The First Amendment requires that when a public employee engages in protected speech, the employer may not discharge the employee unless the statements impair that employee's ability to do the job. The court weighs the interests of the employer in fulfilling its duties against the interests of the employee speaking as a private citizen. Here, the employee's comments had nothing to do with his job of copying and filing real estate records, and could not be said to have interfered with his duties. Additionally, because he had no duties to interact with the public, any notoriety he gained or public disruption would not affect his ability to do his job. Therefore, the court should hold that his termination was unconstitutional.

(Line_2009): B is the correct answer. The city here is not prohibiting a particular type of speech entirely. Rather it is regulating where that "speech" may take place. And, the test for evaluating time, place, and manner restrictions is whether the restriction is designed to serve a substantial governmental interest in a way that does not unreasonably limit alternative avenues of communication. Preventing adverse secondary effects associated with adult theaters and bookstores is a substantial governmental interest.

(Line_2023): D is the correct answer. Regulations of commercial speech must be a reasonable fit to promote a substantial interest. Protecting the streets from litter may be a substantial interest, but forbidding machines from dispensing publications consisting wholly of commercial advertisements is not a reasonable fit, since only ten percent of the machines were removed under this scheme. Therefore, the ordinance would be unconstitutional.

(Line_2025): C is the correct answer. The statute prohibits only release of the information from the government, but not publication of the same information or release of the information by private parties. There is generally no First Amendment right of access to records kept by the executive branch, and here it is only access to those records and not censorship of the information more generally that the statute accomplishes. Preventing adverse consequences from information about an arrest or charges that are later dropped or dismissed is at least a legitimate state interest, and this measure is closely related to that goal. Therefore, it would be constitutional.

(Line_2027): D is the correct answer. Congress has broad powers to legislate to promote the general welfare, and this statute does that. Moreover, the statute has concrete objectives, provides adequate criteria for conducting the essay contest and awarding the prize money, and contains safeguards ensuring Congressional input into the makeup of the decision makers. Therefore, the statute is neither beyond Congress's powers generally, nor, more specifically, is it an unconstitutional delegation of legislative authority.

(Line_2029): B is the correct answer. The ordinance classifies on the basis of county residency: only residents of Kelly County can register taxicabs there, and only registered taxicabs can pick up or drop off passengers in the county. The ordinance effectively gives Kelly residents a monopoly over the taxicab business in the guise of reducing congestion. This monopoly burdens interstate commerce, and because there is no limit on the number of taxicabs that can be registered, it is difficult to see how the ordinance will reduce congestion. Thus, the ordinance impermissibly burdens interstate commerce without adequate justification.

(Line_2031): D is the correct answer. A person may not be deprived of liberty or property without procedural due process. The city ordinance is the source of the property right alleged here, but the scope of that property right is limited. Taxicab licenses do not include a right to be free of competition from additional licensees, because the ordinance does not limit the number of licenses that may be issued and provides for a hearing only when the ground alleged is a lack of qualifications. Therefore, the grant of a license to the woman does not deprive the licensed driver of any property right that would require procedures to protect it. Moreover, there is no statutory right to a hearing because the only ground for a hearing is a lack of qualification, and the decision of whether to grant a pre-termination hearing is up to the discretion of the city licensing officials.

(Line_2043): C is the correct answer. The limitation on all abortions after the first trimester except when the life or health of the mother is threatened is an undue burden on women's fundamental right to reproductive choice prior to fetal viability. The state may not impose an undue burden on the ability of women to get abortions at any point in the pregnancy, although after fetal viability, most limitations will not be an undue burden as long as there is an exception for the life and the health of the mother.

(Line_2045): B is the correct answer. Setting up an advisory commission to encourage vaccination as a public health measure is within the scope of executive authority vested in the President by the Constitution. And, no federal statute prohibits its creation so that even if Congress shares the power to legislate in this area, it has not prohibited executive branch involvement. Thus, the commission is constitutional.

(Line_2047): D is the correct answer. The government cannot restrict speech based on its content unless the content falls into a category of speech that is not protected for some reason. Political speech is at the core of protected speech. Therefore, the government cannot prohibit political speech based on its content. Further, the government cannot condition a right or benefit on an agreement by an individual not to engage in constitutionally protected speech. Therefore the license holder has a meritorious defense to the license revocation proceeding.

(Line_2049): D is the correct answer. The government cannot restrict speech based on its content unless the content falls into a category of speech that is not protected for some reason. Political speech is at the core of protected speech. Therefore, the government cannot prohibit political speech based on its content. Further, the government cannot condition a right or benefit on an agreement by an individual not to engage in constitutionally protected speech. Therefore the license holder has a meritorious defense to the license revocation proceeding.
